I went from cs:go to this after 1k hours on cs:go and i still think this game is gorgeous. I'm really sad that i started to play 1.6 just now, and also that i missed the 1.6 golden era. Even if the physics and almost everything else is really different and 'strange' i find it more relaxing to play but at the same time harder then go. A lot of players don't even know about this game, but people listen me! if you love cs in general you have to play this game at least once and please don't crack it...you'll find only russians on that versions and everybody knows how they play at cs ;)it's decent fun if you like these kinds of games and are looking for a casual experience, or are simply intrigued by playing a 2d moba. I'd recommend it if you're paying a few dollars or less for it, but not for full price. Awesomenauts feels a lot more like monday night combat than any other game i can think of. Killing another player requires a ton of auto-attack hits; you can unload all your abilities and have them just round a corner or straight up run away if they're slightly faster than you. Though your team can help, there aren't many stuns and most abilities can be dodged with a bit of skill which makes a 3 on 1 ambush hardly a guarantee. The maps are small and the characters are generally fast, meaning it is easy to run behind a tower and teleport back to base. This makes you feel weak, and makes the early game a push and pull grind unless the teams or picks are unbalanced. In my limited experience that makes the late game relatively even if you haven't screwed up enough to let your base get exposed; comebacks are easy and losses are slow. If your base does get exposed there are no automated defenses, meaning if you don't have somebody defending it at all times, it is easy for two people to defend your push while one person sneaks behind you to kill it. I found a build and character fairly early on that led me to a 90% win rate solely by split-pushing and running away, which seems like no fun to play against (though it is fun to run through the whole team when they think they have you cornered). Speaking of builds, two active abilities and zero items means that buying this game just to try out various builds is a short endeavour. No items and only being able to choose three of five modifiers for each ability means that characters seem stuck in what they're designed to do. Some of the modifiers seem far less powerful than others, which means you can quickly become limited to 'do i want this gun to shoot slightly faster or do slightly more damage?’ adding to the lack of items, the fact that you have to preselect your loadout before finding a match means that there's no real way to react to the way the game is progressing besides the order in which you level up abilities. While it's difficult to call a game 'easy' when you face human players operating under the same rules as you, the balance of the game is set up so that unskilled or casual players can have a decent time. There are characters that have homing abilities and huge aoe attacks, ai fills in when there aren't enough players even in ranked modes (and they're basically suicidal), and the game seems strongly balanced towards letting people escape or survive attacks if everybody is equally skilled. There is also a level up system that prevents access to characters and skills, leading to higher level players having a gameplay advantage, though generally many people are attracted by the process of levelling up. There are no dedicated servers, which often gives the host a noticeable advantage and is terrible for fair competition in a fast moving game, though it is still very playable. On the positive side, awesomenauts boasts a strong and fresh style, with a saturday morning cartoon presentation, including catchy music, cool setting, and colorful characters; though some of the voice acting brings down the otherwise high quality presentation. The game is likeable and well made, if you enjoy the particulars more than i there is plenty of replayability and you will probably have a fantastic time overall. Awesomenauts is good, but difficult for me to recommend when there are so many similar games that have systems that i enjoy more and may be more enjoyable to you. Rating based on current state of play, as per my last login. The last time i logged in, there was nearly no one to play with, things were stagnating, and there was far less to do as a 'greenie' (nonsubscriber on subscriber oceans) than there seemed to have felt like in the past. Even if i had resub'd, there didn't see that much to do, let alone anyone to do any of it with. I played y!pp on and off for so. So. So. Many years. I believe my first account was made somewhere in 05 to 06, putting me at roughly the 9-10 year mark. While i played more off than on, those times during which i did play i would get completely sucked back into my ocean for weeks, if not months. When i was a bit younger, this game was tremendous amounts of fun. This has more to do with the fact that the ocean(s) were far more populated back then than they are these days, even after the colossal oceans merge. I was originally on cobalt i believe, which during the prime of my play-days was the ocean to be on. As i got older, i began to better understand the mechanics of the games i was actually playing, which made me better at them - but, alas, there weren't many people to play with anymore. The puzzles themselves are clever and a lot of fun. Most of them are simple enough to begin with that anyone could jump right in; still, they also have layers of depth enough to keep amused those whom understand the advanced concepts to each (insane amounts of chaining, combos out the booty, etc etc). The variety of things to do seemed pretty much endless for awhile. From jobbing to running pillages; sloshing down drinks and throwing down rounds of poker, hearts, spades; exploring uninhabited islands; playing borderline-impossible games of hide-and-seek with me mates and trying to make everyone play on the fair (aka clickable; looking at you, dock arrow hiders! ); running a shoppe; blockading islands; and so much more. There are so many awesome puzzles sprawled all across the game, and they are all extremely unique. You can spend hours working on your ability to perform incredibles on one of the half dozen or more ship/duty puzzles; then go manage your shoppe/stalls and put in work hours at the awesome crafting puzzles; then spend a couple hours running commodities from port to port; go in search of el polo diablo for kicks and giggles and much insta death lols; then chill out at the tavern with drinks, game puzzles, swordfighting duels, and players buying, selling, trading, looking or advertising for crews, trying to pick a fight, and more. Then there are blockades, monster hunts, skeleton/zombie island take overs, contests, avatar outfitting, homes and ships of all sorts of sizes and designs to buy, paint, and decorate, parties to throw... Yeah. Lots to do. As a game that was hugely social in its prime, seeing the excruciatingly slow and painful death of y!pp (esp the sub oceans) was... Really, really sad. I miss this game a lot, and really wish it could be revived. Once spiral knights started to take off, things went downhill. I've never really found any other games quite like pp. The thorough permeation of theme, the way it was kid-friendly but not so much so that it was off-putting or unappealing to adults, how one could play casually, socially, or fer-srs. This game is both niche yet massively appealing to the masses, especially in the casual mobile gaming world of today. What would be super. Freaking. Awesome! ? if y!pp were to produce a sequel, or a spiritual successor, or something like that. The system itself worked quite well - $10/month subscription is very fair. Some things would need to be reworked a bit, and i can easily see how expansive it could get. An enormous open-world you could explore on your own or with your crew, finding hidden, previously undiscovered islands in the far corners of the world, exploring overwhelming jungles, diving into the deep-sea ruins of atlantis in search of treasure and adventure, brave the misty swamplands of the cursed isles, all while interacting with diverse wildlife and a population of both advanced ai npcs and other players; yet still keeping the original base concept of the game (crews, pillages, plunders, and puzzles)... I lost many hundreds of hours to the original y!pp - and i can easily see myself pouring hundreds more into its successor, if it were done right. But right now? the game isn't worth playing unless you want a poor social experience (if any), a few puzzles to play (these days the only puzzles you can play without a subscription are ship duty puzzles such as bilge, carp, sails, rigs, etc), and an empty, empty, linear world in which you don't so much explore as you do sail in a straight light along a pre-dotted path from island to island, archipelago to archipelago. Perhaps you could even buy up a stash of little blue potions and whisk yourself to quiet, abandoned port towns and long-forgotten jungle islands, just to see what could have been.while yes it is a reskin of ch i had honestly ever put time into a clicker game before. I had played a few afk games before on kongregate but this gave me that small sense of nastalgia i got when the original servers were brought back up for ragnarok online. While i dont have much time anymore to put into that game i can leave this running and enjoy some epic music and even some familiar sounds for the monsters. It bring me back to my guild days with my friends and something i can get into while my daughter is napping. Epic game and looking forward to future updates! edit: after putting some time into it as well as finally trying out clicker heroes i can determine that a lot is similar between the two as i had first believed. However, with the ragnarok clicker it seems to stay steady to the ragnarok lore and the flavor text for the characters is really nastalgic to me. It even made me go and download ragnarok online from steam and begin playing all over again while running this in the background. So far it gives me a great feeling and i always feel acomplished when i take down a big boss to move on to the next area. Hope it gets updated soon!.8/10 this game begins in your head like age of the empires, but then you realize it's much more. Take hold of one hero and like any rpg, rage into battle. In dota you are the minion, your master unseen, yet he sends creatures to aid you, you are not alone, other heroes battle with you, users, have wow in such a unique blend of both multiplayer battles with astounding detail, every character can move their mouths the designs on their clothes visible, cloth waving in the winds. One thing i very much respect is when you point your character in all new directions he won't repetitively bother you with. 'yes.' 'setting tragectory,' 'i'm manning this spot,' they each have a variety of things to say when walking, and won't say it every time you click, which is such a distraction in most mmorpg. The only thing that would prevent me from loving it fully was the amazing 3d face you have in the corner, getting to see your hero is great, but he only talks when walking or being reincarnated (coming back to life after dying,) this game supports mic input, so why wouldn't they have your character talk in the side when you did. Anyway, that's a minor issue i see with it, this game is great, there is literally no reason not to get it, this game is free to play, and totally awesome. #update002: upon playing more of dota 2, i have found a major flaw in all of their matchmaking systems. You see i have 5 matches left, in laggy servers, just because i quit. I wasn't abandoning i had my language on spanish not english, so my server was all the way in mexico, it was lagging on so i disconnected, next thing i know, the accept button now says 'accept low prioity match'. So now i can only join laggy servers for abandoning the team. I couldn't do anything for the team like that. And now whoever quits the low priority servers i keep joining, it adds up to my punishment as they say, my punishment list. In numbers, well i'm currently at 5, yeah, it's fun to pay off my punishment, for having to quit! and that's why my review is now 8 out of 10, not 9 out of 10 anymore, thanks valve, way to make me hate your game, i still like this game enough to play it and have fun with it, but i'm stuck having to wait out in servers a sitting duck (cause the lag is too much to bear, i'll only be feeding myself to the enemy.) until my numbers run dry! hopefully thing review provides a lengthy opinion on why you i recommend it. This game was put together greatly, but still failed in a big part of me, i believe this game deserves a 8 out of 10. To be honest, my hopes were not high when i picked up this game on sale. It looked pretty simple and pretty bloody ugly but surely it'd be worth a quid or so? the game powered up and there was the sweet, sweet sound of the ghostbusters theme, my eyes teared with joy and i danced. Hopes were raised and then instantly dashed as soon as i started playing it. It seem that the theme was what they spent 90% of their budget on because it sure as hell wasn't the game itself. It fails at the most basic of tasks with the weapons more often than not completely missing where your crosshair was aiming, this is especially noticeable on the blue plasma gun thing. Yes that's right they decided to give you fancy new weapons. They are utter ♥♥♥♥, but they are there. The other alternate weapon to the classic proton pack is a spread fire yellow monstrosity that is about as effective as attacking ghosts with a wet sock. What makes it worse is you don’t even get to ignore these less than stellar bonus weapons as for some bizarre reason the game devs decided that busting ghosts required us to play a fun, fun game (read: entirely not fun) of match the colours. You see ghosts have decided to bring out their summer range of ghostly glows and are colour coded in red, yellow &amp; blue. Red can only be slain with your proton pack, yellow is reserved for the wet sock gun and blue is for you misaligned plasma weapon. All this high octane 'gameplay' is spread over something around 11 levels. Only there is only 5 maps (excluding the last boss battle map) so you play through the dull selection of maps, hotel, sewer, graveyard etc. Only to have the pleasure of playing them again, with minor changes. Not that'll you notice any of the changes because they are still uglier than a pitbulls ♥♥♥♥♥♥. Special mention goes the to the half on rails shooter sections in which you are driven around on the back of ecto-4wd, a 4x4 version of the iconic ghostbusters car only this time driven by what can only assume is a london cabbie off his face of crack. Just when you think things can't get worse the final level before you are faced with the uninspiring giant demon last boss baddie is a map where you get to fight each of the bosses you have defeated one by one. Oh fun! maybe things wouldn't be so bad if the ai was apparently programmed to act like baby ducklings. Baby ducklings with highly dangerous weaponry and suicidal tendencies. When they aren't all trying to hug each other for warmth (while unleashing proton beams into each other faces) they are pinning you to the wall so the ghosts get to chew your face off, or my favourite, using the wrong gun to attack ghost. See, even the ai thinks it's a ♥♥♥♥ idea to have colour coded ghosts! it probably wouldn’t be as bad if every ghost on the screen seems to target the human player, leaving you sprinting around with a comical conga line of monsters behind you while the ai 'busters discusses amongst themselves the finer points of window licking. Now i suppose this could be solved by having three friends play alongside you, which i suppose is true. Yanno, if you have some friends you really, really hate because they won't be friends with you after enduring this. Thank christ it’s short.probably the most underrated racing game ever! its not just a racing game, its more than that! its pretty much a racing mmorpg. With plenty of things to do. You can obviously race, earn money, buy new cars and houses to store your collection of cars, and go to the casino if you have the dlc for it. I've played this on all the sytems its avalible for but the pc is my favorite because the graphics are more rich and detailed. I like the selection of cars in the game ranging from, the crappy beginners cars to the fast and luxurious super cars such as the bugatti veyron super sport! go ahead and buys this if you love cars and just driving around beautiful tropical islands with lots to do!renegade ops belongs in the twin-stick shooter genre and a controller is recommended. It takes a while to get a grip on the shooting because movement is physics based. This brings an element of randomness to the driving which can lead to unintentional crashing and rolling over. Same rules apply to enemies as well and the game is mostly just a beautiful chaos. Weapons are powerful enough and sound like they mean business. Enemy variation could be higher since the same ones repeat over and over again but personally i got so much out of the destruction that i wasn't bored. Player takes control of a single vehicle from a selection of 5 (+2 with dlc). Each of these has a special ability and look different but mostly operate on same way. You can pick up better weapons and health from fallen enemies and since these are random you can either be really lucky or stuck with your crappy level 1 machine gun for a long time. Any experience you gather is automaticly saved which is great since it makes failing a bit easier to swallow. Upgrade system lets you choose a bit of what to focus on but doesn't make a huge difference. You can only use 4 skills at a time and for example i liked gordon freeman (yes, the) because of his antlions. 4th upgrade slot opens at level 30 and at that time i allready had all of the skills a liked. So from 30 to max level of 45 i used the same skills. Graphics are colorful and great. Scenery changes often depending on the mission so there is plenty of variation. Frame rate stayed solid even though at times the action and set pieces are just insane. During my 8 hours (of which about 2 was with dlc missions) with the single player the game crashed once but otherwise worked without problems. I have no problems with the overall lenght of renegade ops. What i do have problems with is the lenght of individual missions. Normally a single mission takes about 20 minutes to complete and there are no checkpoints in the game. Especially in a game that puts the player on the mercy of a physics engine this is at times really frustrating. Missions starts with (depending on the difficulty) 3-5 lives and you can get one extra from a skill. You can also find extra lives but most i managed to find in a level was one. Casual mode is also available but it disables upgrades and other good things about the gameplay. On medium lack of checkpoints is no problem but on insane it takes one little mistake and few bad respawns to lose 3 lives in 30 seconds. I suspect that insane difficulty is meant for co-op which i didn't have the possibility to try out. It's for 4 players and if it works as well as single player it should be a blast with friends! it should be much faster to complete the game in co-op so take that into consideration. I got a suprising amount of enjoyment out of a game that i though i'd get bored in half an hour. Renegade ops is stupid fun and i liked it a lot!i could tell by the menu screen this game was going to be creepy. First night: i look at my cameras and notice the bear is starting to move a little. I start to think everything is ok but its been awhile since i checked my cameras. I glance down at my camera and see there is no bunny. It takes me a second to process it and i pull up the camera a second time to confirm that the bunny is gone. Now i'm starting to hear things in the hallway and i start to press my light in small flickers trying to conserve power. I turn the light on and then the bunny is right there leaning in the room and i about have a heart attack as i reach and slam the door button down. When 6 clock comes around and you still have enough battery to keep your door closed it will be such a relief. I made it to night 3 on my first go but didnt press the door quickly enough and its really scarry if you dont :(i guess this review is mostly for people who played mgs before (if for some reason you have not bought it yet), but i hope that newcomers will get something new out of it as well. In one short sentence - if you played peace walker, it is practically a bigger (and better) version of that. First of all - gameplay gameplay is pretty polished. Controls are on point most of the time, there are a lot of gadgets to experiment with, and if you have good imagination, it can be a really fun game, if you are willing to try different strategies. Not everything is explained (for example, i came to the conclusion that the stealth index like in mgs3 and 4 exist, but is not shown, or properly explained (apart of some 'common logic' phrases like 'blend with your surroundings'). This camo index can lead to some ridiculous moments - like if you are on sand wearing sand camo uniform, you can practically sneak under the enemy's nose. Ai can seem very random for someone who does not realize how much camo is important in this game - one moment you are spotted across the camp (because you are wearing black in an afghanistan), another instance you are crawling in front of their eyes. One thing for sure though - enemies turn blind during the night. Speaking of enemies – there is a neat system where they “adapt” to you. Too many headshots – they start wearing helmets. You clear couple of their camps with a sniper rifle – they get snipers of their own. Play at night, say hello to enemies with night visions goggles. There are a lot of gimmicks which can be fun - horse pooping to spin cars out of control, cardboard box which can be used in various ways, including sliding down the hills for a swift escape. If you sprint and call your horse, it will keep up with you, allowing you to jump on it without stopping, if you hide in the toilet and play a cassette with ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ noises, the guard will ignore it, etc etc, the game does not explain all of it, so experimenting is rewarding. Missions structure is that of the peace walker. The game is broken down into missions - mission 1, 2, 3, etc. They are tackled in progression, and can be returned to later (for example, if you want to achieve an s rank with better gear, and complete a couple of optional objectives). Apart of those, there are side ops - basically you running around in the 'open world', and completing various objectives (save soldier, eliminate tanks, etc). However, sadly those missions become very repetitive. Its usually eliminate, rescue, or follow, in both missions and side ops. The only difference is that in missions it will usually follow up with a story context (this scientist can tell us what our enemies are planning, for example), while side ops is just farming for your mother base (more on that later). Also the same locations often get reused - more so in side ops (because there is like 150 of those). As strange as it may sound, i actually missed the simple 'get from point a to point b' kind of objectives. Because of the structure of the most enemy camps, there are several points of entrance. Which is surely good, eh? but those camps are fairly open. My point is, i missed the somewhat claustrophobic feeling of enclosed spaces. Dont get me wrong, the new formula is good, but throwing in the old one would make for a far better variety. Mother base - i don’t want to spend too much time here. You recruit soldiers, improve your mother base, which leads to you developing new gear to take out in the field. That’s why there are 150 side ops - they are pretty much farming missions for the mother base. As for the online portion, i don’t have much to say, as i ignored it. Story - wise, im disappointed. And no, not because its a ridiculous, over the top, serious themes mixed with japanese extravaganza, and all that. After all, its what makes mgs what it is. Its the lack of story. Its like kojima took all the criticism of 'lengthy cut scenes' of mgs4 and decided to make them too few. Most of the story is given through tapes which you can listen to. I don’t mind those, but again, a little more cut scenes thrown in a mix would make for a better verity. Also, without spoilers, in my opinion it is the weakest mgs story-wise. Also, pretty much non-existant boss battles. Something mgs is famous for. Shame. In the end, its a well-polished game, with fun mechanics and open to experimentation. It is let down by a weak story (or to be precise, not enough of it), and somewhat repetitive nature. Newcomers might enjoy the gameplay, but will be completely lost and have no idea of what is going on. Just a tip though, don’t take the game too seriously! i rate it 8/10 as a game and 7/10 as an mgs game me personally – i enjoyed it (90 hours at the time of this review), but its not quite the masterpiece, “final” mgs i was expecting.i'm an old man and not very good at most games. I had to play this game at the lowest setting and did not die too many times. Well, several times towards the end, but i finished the game. It took me 14 hours (i know...i said i'm old) and i have to say that i was very impressed! i purchased the prima guide and reviewed it before and during the game and was able to get a lot more out of the game than i would have otherwise. Those who are giving this game a low rating are probably just rushing from point a to point b so fast that you can't possibly appreciate all of the differences and subtle nuances. Plus...the guide helps with skillshots, collectibles and achievements. How about looking for the good in something rather than always looking for the bad? i really liked this game including the crude humor. I think it's a solid 10!crysis 2 is a very solid and enjoyable game. The graphics are beautiful and the suit system has been revamped in a good way. I didn't find that the loss of the sandbox navigation of the first game detracts from gameplay at all, which i've heard was a common complaint; personally, i felt it made things easier because crysis 1 always had me wondering if i was going in the right direction. I disliked the change to a silent protagonist and i was disappointed that the story wasn't continued as nomad, which i think could have been accomplished. I also think that the story felt just a tad too silly with character reactions and revelations throughout the game. Finally, i'm sad to say that using the stealth suit is still the most overpowered way to finish the entire game because enemies suddenly lose track of you when you stealth, and i had multiple occasions where they would shoot straight at me and every bullet/shotgun pellet would pass straight around me. Probably worth buying anyway.okay, this is just based on my own personal experience. I understand there have been a lot of major performance issues for a lot of people. I count myself fortunate that these issues have not happened for me for the most part. The good: if you liked the first dishonored you will like this game. The gameplay and mechanics are essentially the same (which is a positive as they were good in the first game) except for the option to play as corvo or emily and a few new abilities that come with her character. The gameplay and level design are the game's strongest aspects with multiple paths and options available to complete a mission in a variety of ways. The clockwork mansion and the crack in the slab level (where you travel between the past and present) are probably the best of these. As before i found the world design and lore very interesting and was alway eager to explore more. Combat is very smooth and the ai (i played on hard) seemed quite intelligent and challenging # most of the time. I didn't get any crashes or low fps (but maybe i was just lucky) there was a small amount of stuttering a few times but it literally only lasted a few seconds and certainly wasn't game breaking for me. The okay: the graphics are okay but nothing that would impress you much. There are definate improvements over the first game but and lot most impressive in actual gameplay but oddly cut scenes seem to be of a lower quality for some reason and there is a very cartoony feel about the visuals which works some times and not others. Powers are pretty cool to use. You will probably want to decide how you want to play the game when upgrading (ie: stealth or assault) otherwise you'll end up with skills you'll never use. I would have like to have seen more options available in terms of abilities to create more customization but what is there works well enough to have an enjoyable expierience. The bad: there is not much inovation here. The story and narrative are essentially an rerun of the first game. The maps might be a little bigger but not in any way that you would notice greatly. There is no option to re-visit locations or collect items you did not get initally, and with the story about deciding who controls this vast empire, i would have liked to see more locations and a sense of scale and history of the place, not just dunwall and karnaca. As with the first game i would have liked more of an introduction to the world before you are an outlaw so we can see what things are like in good times before they turn bad. There is not a lot of characterization going on. Emily and corvo are little more fleshed out than the first game but more still needed to be done before i get completely invested in them. The villains are effective in the levels they appear in but i would like to see some appear in more parts of the game and given more developement to seem more of a threat. Overall: i enjoyed this game a lot though i was a little disappointed there more improvements from the first game were not made. I would give it a 7 ot of 10. I hope the series continues because i would definately like to see more from this world and characters. In future i would like to see more locations, to show the true scale of this empire and a very different story. I would also not want to see another internal power struggle, an external threat to the empire would make sense such as an invasion by another state. These games may seem dated now by comparison with newer graphics, but nothing nowadays compares to the raw energy this game envoked in players. When this game came out, multiplayer was not the co-op centralized thing it is nowadays. This game was the epitomy of multiplayer in the late 90's early 2000's. Every man for himself, run and gun, pit your skills against the others. Many people nver turely got to experience the level of depth that these styles games could evoke. Are you a rocket man, or do you prefer the cool calculated shot of the rail gun. Find out...buy it and play it. There are still severs up with people playing this game to this day...now that is lasting power.this game is an example of very interesting concepts and very fascinating (and disturbing) art and story. Unfortunately, it suffers from a difficulty curve based only on how time consuming and frustrating certain levels are. Most of the challenges rely on either counter-intuitive presentation (e.g. Requiring the player to fling goo balls into an area that claims to be dangerous but isn't) or making the player guess what the physics will decide to do next. The interface is mostly just dragging goo balls where you want them, but many of the levels require dragging specific goo balls quickly, which is often impossible to do because of the game not selecting the right one if there's any overlap. This issue is then made worse by only certain goo balls being removable after placing them (which the player has to figure out themselves) as well as by the only way of reversing a move being to click on the little bugs that pop up for no explained or intuitive reason twice. Not once, twice. If you only click on one reversal bug, the game almost always reverts back to the most inconvenient possible situation. The two biggest things i took away from this game was a deep sense of boredom and the feeling that the makers don't understand how an object's center of gravity works. Even the constantly moving goo balls do not explain those bizarre weight mechanics worki love the noir feel of this game as well as the jamacan music and the characters seem quite interesting and not too stereotypical in my opinion. I've seen some people in the reviews stating that both grim fandango and the journey down have a similar feel in gameplay, i disagree with that and i wasn't feeling any 'tim schafer moments' in this title, not that that's a flaw of course, this game has it's own unique feel and setting one can enjoy. I agree that it has a similar design to grim fandango so i can see why people would draw connections. It also has easier puzzles than many of the tim schafer titles so you might enjoy this game as somewhat of a beginner puzzle, to put it bluntly. I think the developers should work on the lip syncing seeing how most of the dialogue is out of sync with the phonems of the characters. Also the quality of sound heard from some of the characters sounded quite rough (matoke at the front of mama makena's bar is a good example of this), although i didn't see many flaws in the voice acting itself. And you may find that this game is a bit short for your liking, though since i bought the game so cheaply on sale, i didn't mind. I recommend this game to all those puzzle finatics looking for something unique and original and any new gamer to this genre.i bought the pc prequel to this game, trials 2, in a steam sale years ago and it was one of the most dangerous purchases i have ever made. It is in my nature to get addicted to incredibly hard and frustrating skill games and it is one of the best. I have very little bad to say about that game. The sequel moved to 360, which was really sad and upsetting that they ditched the fan base that supported them. After a few years, they announced the return to pc which was good news! it uses uplay which is fine but i would prefer that it didn't. I would prefer full integration with steam friends. Then it arrived. I started playing it. I got addicted again. I was 100% most of the game. I hated the game but couldn't stop playing it. Most of this came down to the horrible bugginess of the game. It would have huge fps drops and jitter. The black and white level is almost unplayable. In a game that requires accurate timing, the bugs required me to mess up over and over again. The replays were also useless and didn't work properly. I will move away from the bugs to the actual gameplay. I much prefer playing on keyboard. Some of the harder levels with really steep inclines clearly were more designed for a controller but are possible with keyboard after pain staking trial and error. The dynamic camera in the game is frustrating, i much preferred trials 2 static side on camera. In this game, it is common to have blind jumps that you have to memorize. The one level that is 18 minutes long (if i remember rightly), is horrible. I don't like having to repeat a level that long. Otherwise, this game is amazing. The level designs are great. Controls feel satisfying. 100% this game is incredibly hard and equally satisfying and i did get very addicted. I will say i do recommend this game but it is a gamble with the bugs. If you have an older graphics card, i imagine the gamble is higher.the only reason i do not recommend this game is if you are more into the management aspect of these games. The creative and building part is phenomenal if that is what you are looking for then you should get the game. The management aspect needs a severe rebalancing and almost complete re-working to make it even an aspect of the game that you need to pay attention to. It's way too easy to make money and it's way too easy to please guests. That being said, if you just want to construct cool looking rollercoasters and theme parks then get this game. More on the management: the challenge mode is only initially challenging. As soon as you get a couple rides the game might as well be sandbox mode because of how little you have to 'manage' the park. Hundreds of people will stop by to visit your crappy park as soon as you plop down your first couple attractions. There is very little customization into what you actually do with the burgers and drink shops. You can make them lool different, but basically your park will end up with 200 chief beefs and 300 milkshake shops of varying architecture. Research seems pointless since money isn't an issue, you basically just wait. If money was actually hard to come by then research might actually have a purpose because you'd have to choose whether (and what) you want to research. As is you just research whatever all the time because it's almost impossible to go broke. Aside from the management issues the ui leaves a lot to be desired and the game has the strangest system of putting down pathways and queues. Why can't they use click and drag? i understand it's probably a remnant from the coaster construction system just ported to make walkways instead, but it's so weird having to choose your length, with, angle, etc with a series of sliders and menus rather than, you know, just placing it down. I understand it gives more customizability (which is king in this game, very commendable) but i don't see why it has to be a system of sliders and menus rather than a couple keystrokes.this game is a masterpiece of writing, voice acting, and musical talent. In fact, throughout my time with the game, i had to remind myself to sleep, so that i could better understand the story, and improve my performance in the game. My heart was pumping whenever geralt entered combat, as the music was that intense. I was moved emotionally by the voice acting. The combat is engaging, and it turns out that the combat phenomenal. There is no one attack that 'beats everything'. Know this, whatever you do, play the game on the second highest/highest difficulty. It is the only way to truly play the game. However, this game does have it's flaws. Not in storytelling, or gameplay, but with a couple of technical issues. A few times, i could not exit the conversations i was in with npcs. Others, my game froze a few times, but the autosave is pretty good, and i only lost about 5-10 mins of gameplay. 9/10 (only because the crashes/bugs were annoying, but not too plentiful to ruin the experience) witcher 3 is more than a game, it is an experience. Cdprojektred... *applauds vigorously* well done. Ps: get the game when its on sale with the dlc bundled in! pps: for real people, i had to force myself to not look up spoilers to the consequences of actions in game. That's how badly i wanted the 'best ending'. (review counted as the complete sam and max seasons 1,2 and 3 however seasons 1 and 2 currently do not work on windows 10) really entertaining and funny point and click adventure game. Though i admit i am a bit dumb when it came to puzzles in this game...often ended up looking up guides &gt;w&gt; shhhhh! in all honesty the puzzles (basicly everything you do in the game) are all well thought out so there isn't any super unrealistic answer to a problem that hasn't been hinted slightly in the game....like pixel searching or using items together in a way that makes no sense to solve a problem. Get it if you love point and click adventure games because this is as good as it gets!! ^.^ as long as you dont mind 15 games appearing in your games library after only buying 3.....