       shoes in the hall, black blisters to the right, i could have taken you for food, as strawberries dipped in wine. your caffeine-free green tea, your perfect library of books and CDs, the neatness of your desk, floor and bed, the view from inside your heart. if i had a body, i would give it to you. fast beginning fast ending. but, as you rationalized--we've known each other for one month already. i see you standing, taut, on the edge of how, your light brown eyes inside your open palms.  i have knelt down to wash your feet, as if the demons had left me, and i would take your eyes into  mine in perfect symmetry of passion and pain if i knew that i had nothing to fear but death. in your hand, i could have found relief from the tears of Brahms' chords, the tenderness of fingers of the world inside a sound of God. silence is free and your words are as true as rose petals strewn over the sidewalk cracks awaiting the warm white rain.  Concert Gala Vendredi 4 Juin Brahms' Concerto no 2 en si bemol majeur, opus 83--if you hear the Andante, you will walk with feet steeled for flight above the family of your dreams inside the kiss of life. (Sergei Salov played--he won the Concours Musical International de Montreal) Peter also loved Jacques Hetu's 'Impromptu pour piano, opus 70 and Ravel's Alborada del Gracioso. i also loved Prokofiev's Concerto no. 3 in do major, opus 26.  'where did you get this body?' you asked me at least twice. inside your dreams. the smooth body of cupid is yours. paint us here, before the dance falls.  troglodyte vituperate sybaritic  you played the first act of Wagner's Parsifal--the CD with Peter and the Wolf. oh, your body was a marble statue of naked Cupid.  you told me: 'you are so beautiful.' but, love cannot be? why am i so sad? you are leaving--will i ever see you again, the way you said i would...? i can't count on it. no matter what, you will be dear to me always. you said: my one wish is to 'have a family' and you asked me to live with you over the summer...even to marry you, lol. of course, our last contract was to 'go with the flow.' the feeling i have of tears during Brahms' andante. it will pass like a kite through the leaves, barely touching their veins.  if you have more time to think, you will think against me--though my whole soul is for you as an angel emerging out of the tulip's purple petals into violent dusk. i cannot have but true feeling for you. your warm skin and statuesque form remind me that Casanova's figures can be given life. Galatea lived once, too. G-d Bless you all. mother working in the garden with a smile on her face...the birds chirping at 4 a.m. have a place in this too. xox to you, Peter.  of course, your reply contains no such xox. the joke's on me. cruelty is in everyone, a burning desire to vanquish the one who holds your heart.   you have exercised your right, as a tiger would, extinct in your precision, wise in your decision to shut me out. why not be prudent with a fat girl like me? fuck you, too, honey, and take your stupid dick elsewhere. have a nice life.  i have the honey ingrained in my leaves, a moment of hell needed to deceive, a heart through a wire festering on a spear of hope. you have the  cleanest cuts, the words protected from pain, the olive skin for the desert sun. what have i done? given myself away as a drummer  crashes his drum, washed your feet as a sinner washes those of Sin. bitter, my blisters multiplying in the growing heat, i walk away from the idea of you, almost protected now from further surprise, feeling sick enough to kill what little love i have left. i should have struck you instead of kissed you, and in the dark, taken your soul to cast into the flames. what have i now but regrets? what have i now but the  certainty of further pain?          