This year the office of labor & employee relations (oler) is pleased to provide your business unit's 2001 affirmative action program online. The online site contains the documentation required to meet our regulatory obligations including the aap narrative, goals and utilization analysis. We have also included links to critical eeo/aa policies and related information. We are excited about this opportunity to simplify your access to this critical and important information. Please reference this web-site when you have an open position that needs to be filled or when considering transferring and promoting employees. The url link is listed at the bottom of this message. Through our affirmative action programs we take positive steps to ensure that we deliver on our commitment to eeo. Affirmative action is not about quotas for women or minorities nor is it about preferential treatment to less qualified candidates because of their race, gender, disability or veteran status. Through affirmative action, we seek to establish a "level playing field" for all employees and applicants, regardless of race, gender, disability or veteran status. We use statistical analyses of employment patterns as indicators of whether the playing field is truly level. The aap contains proprietary information, therefore it should not be shared with anyone outside of enron. If your operating company is participating in a bidding process where eeo/aap information is requested, please forward those requests to the corporate office of labor & employee relations at eb1561 or call (713) 853-3086. Please refer to enron's code of ethics book for guidance concerning your obligations of confidence with proprietary company information. Although the aap contains proprietary information and belongs to enron corp., the narrative section is to be made available for review during regular work hours to all job applicants and employees who ask to see it. We ask that these requests be forwarded through human resources and that the web site you are accessing not be shared. We would also like to take this opportunity to reaffirm the strong commitment of enron corp. To the principle of equal employment opportunity in its personnel policies and practices. It is our company policy to recruit, hire, train, and promote into all job levels, the most qualified employees and applicants for employment, without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, disability, or veteran status. All employee selections are based on (1) inclusive recruitment and outreach efforts, and the merit, qualifications and competence of individuals for the particular positions, and (2) consistently providing equal employment opportunity. We believe that a diverse workforce is a strength, and that as we implement personnel policies and practices which foster fair treatment on the basis of race, sex and disability, we promote equitable employment opportunities for all employees and applicants. Enron administers all personnel programs and employment opportunities without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, pregnancy, national origin, physical or mental disability, veteran status, or status as an alien authorized to work in the united states. Such employment programs and opportunities include, but are not limited to, compensation, benefits, transfers, layoff, leaves of absence, return from layoff, training, education, tuition assistance, and company-sponsored social and recreational programs. We have developed and implemented the 2001 affirmative action program (aap) to support our commitment to the principle of equal employment opportunity and meet federal and state requirements. The aap describes, in detail, the policies and procedures used in the company's operations to carry out its commitment. Your company's eeo officer, as stipulated in your plan narrative, is responsible for administering the company's affirmative action program and will report to senior management on a continuing basis with regard to the progress being made under the aap. If you have questions, comments or concerns about enron's equal opportunity and affirmative action policies, please speak with your supervisor or your human resource representative. As with any rollout of a new web-site, errors, while not expected, may occur. Please contact aa program@enron.com if you are unable to log-in or experience any difficulties. We would recommend that once you access the site you add it to your "favorites" list for future reference. Http://aap.enron.com/default.asp?u=2451&p=fwkoshpg