It's decent fun if you like these kinds of games and are looking for a casual experience, or are simply intrigued by playing a 2D MOBA. I'd recommend it if you're paying a few dollars or less for it, but not for full price.  Awesomenauts feels a lot more like Monday Night Combat than any other game I can think of. Killing another player requires a ton of auto-attack hits; you can unload all your abilities and have them just round a corner or straight up run away if they're slightly faster than you. Though your team can help, there aren't many stuns and most abilities can be dodged with a bit of skill which makes a 3 on 1 ambush hardly a guarantee. The maps are small and the characters are generally fast, meaning it is easy to run behind a tower and teleport back to base. This makes you feel weak, and makes the early game a push and pull grind unless the teams or picks are unbalanced. In my limited experience that makes the late game relatively even if you haven't screwed up enough to let your base get exposed; comebacks are easy and losses are slow. If your base does get exposed there are no automated defenses, meaning if you don't have somebody defending it at all times, it is easy for two people to defend your push while one person sneaks behind you to kill it. I found a build and character fairly early on that led me to a 90% win rate solely by split-pushing and running away, which seems like no fun to play against (though it is fun to run through the whole team when they think they have you cornered).  Speaking of builds, two active abilities and zero items means that buying this game just to try out various builds is a short endeavour. No items and only being able to choose three of five modifiers for each ability means that characters seem stuck in what they're designed to do. Some of the modifiers seem far less powerful than others, which means you can quickly become limited to 'Do I want this gun to shoot slightly faster or do slightly more damage?’ Adding to the lack of items, the fact that you have to preselect your loadout before finding a match means that there's no real way to react to the way the game is progressing besides the order in which you level up abilities.  While it's difficult to call a game 'easy' when you face human players operating under the same rules as you, the balance of the game is set up so that unskilled or casual players can have a decent time. There are characters that have homing abilities and huge AoE attacks, AI fills in when there aren't enough players even in ranked modes (and they're basically suicidal), and the game seems strongly balanced towards letting people escape or survive attacks if everybody is equally skilled. There is also a level up system that prevents access to characters and skills, leading to higher level players having a gameplay advantage, though generally many people are attracted by the process of levelling up. There are no dedicated servers, which often gives the host a noticeable advantage and is terrible for fair competition in a fast moving game, though it is still very playable. On the positive side, Awesomenauts boasts a strong and fresh style, with a Saturday morning cartoon presentation, including catchy music, cool setting, and colorful characters; though some of the voice acting brings down the otherwise high quality presentation.  The game is likeable and well made, if you enjoy the particulars more than I there is plenty of replayability and you will probably have a fantastic time overall. Awesomenauts is good, but difficult for me to recommend when there are so many similar games that have systems that I enjoy more and may be more enjoyable to you. 