I guess this review is mostly for people who played mgs before (if for some reason you have not bought it yet), but i hope that newcomers will get something new out of it as well. In one short sentence - if you played peace walker, it is practically a bigger (and better) version of that. First of all - gameplay gameplay is pretty polished. Controls are on point most of the time, there are a lot of gadgets to experiment with, and if you have good imagination, it can be a really fun game, if you are willing to try different strategies. Not everything is explained (for example, i came to the conclusion that the stealth index like in mgs3 and 4 exist, but is not shown, or properly explained (apart of some 'common logic' phrases like 'blend with your surroundings'). This camo index can lead to some ridiculous moments - like if you are on sand wearing sand camo uniform, you can practically sneak under the enemy's nose. Ai can seem very random for someone who does not realize how much camo is important in this game - one moment you are spotted across the camp (because you are wearing black in an afghanistan), another instance you are crawling in front of their eyes. One thing for sure though - enemies turn blind during the night. Speaking of enemies – there is a neat system where they “adapt” to you. Too many headshots – they start wearing helmets. You clear couple of their camps with a sniper rifle – they get snipers of their own. Play at night, say hello to enemies with night visions goggles. There are a lot of gimmicks which can be fun - horse pooping to spin cars out of control, cardboard box which can be used in various ways, including sliding down the hills for a swift escape. If you sprint and call your horse, it will keep up with you, allowing you to jump on it without stopping, if you hide in the toilet and play a cassette with ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ noises, the guard will ignore it, etc etc, the game does not explain all of it, so experimenting is rewarding. Missions structure is that of the peace walker. The game is broken down into missions - mission 1, 2, 3, etc. They are tackled in progression, and can be returned to later (for example, if you want to achieve an s rank with better gear, and complete a couple of optional objectives). Apart of those, there are side ops - basically you running around in the 'open world', and completing various objectives (save soldier, eliminate tanks, etc). However, sadly those missions become very repetitive. Its usually eliminate, rescue, or follow, in both missions and side ops. The only difference is that in missions it will usually follow up with a story context (this scientist can tell us what our enemies are planning, for example), while side ops is just farming for your mother base (more on that later). Also the same locations often get reused - more so in side ops (because there is like 150 of those). As strange as it may sound, i actually missed the simple 'get from point a to point b' kind of objectives. Because of the structure of the most enemy camps, there are several points of entrance. Which is surely good, eh? but those camps are fairly open. My point is, i missed the somewhat claustrophobic feeling of enclosed spaces. Dont get me wrong, the new formula is good, but throwing in the old one would make for a far better variety. Mother base - i don’t want to spend too much time here. You recruit soldiers, improve your mother base, which leads to you developing new gear to take out in the field. That’s why there are 150 side ops - they are pretty much farming missions for the mother base. As for the online portion, i don’t have much to say, as i ignored it. Story - wise, im disappointed. And no, not because its a ridiculous, over the top, serious themes mixed with japanese extravaganza, and all that. After all, its what makes mgs what it is. Its the lack of story. Its like kojima took all the criticism of 'lengthy cut scenes' of mgs4 and decided to make them too few. Most of the story is given through tapes which you can listen to. I don’t mind those, but again, a little more cut scenes thrown in a mix would make for a better verity. Also, without spoilers, in my opinion it is the weakest mgs story-wise. Also, pretty much non-existant boss battles. Something mgs is famous for. Shame. In the end, its a well-polished game, with fun mechanics and open to experimentation. It is let down by a weak story (or to be precise, not enough of it), and somewhat repetitive nature. Newcomers might enjoy the gameplay, but will be completely lost and have no idea of what is going on. Just a tip though, don’t take the game too seriously! i rate it 8/10 as a game and 7/10 as an mgs game me personally – i enjoyed it (90 hours at the time of this review), but its not quite the masterpiece, “final” mgs i was expecting.