8/10  This game begins in your head like Age of the Empires, but then you realize it's much more. take hold of one hero and like any RPG, rage into battle. In dota you are the minion, your master unseen, yet he sends creatures to aid you, you are not alone, other heroes battle with you, users, have wow in such a unique blend of both multiplayer battles with astounding detail, every character can move their mouths the designs on their clothes visible, cloth waving in the winds.  One thing i very much respect is when you point your character in all new directions he won't repetitively bother you with. 'Yes.' 'Setting tragectory,' 'I'm manning this spot,' They each have a variety of things to say when walking, and won't say it every time you click, which is such a distraction in most MMORPG.  The only thing that would prevent me from loving it fully was the amazing 3D face you have in the corner, getting to see your hero is great, but he only talks when walking or being reincarnated (Coming back to life after dying,) this game supports mic input, so why wouldn't they have your character talk in the side when you did. anyway, that's a minor issue i see with it, this game is great, there is literally no reason not to get it, this game is free to play, and totally awesome.  #UPDATE002: Upon playing more of Dota 2, i have found a major flaw in all of their matchmaking systems. you see i have 5 matches left, in laggy servers, just because i quit. i wasn't abandoning i had my language on spanish not english, so my server was all the way in mexico, it was lagging on so i disconnected, next thing i know, the accept button now says 'Accept low prioity match'. so now i can only join laggy servers for abandoning the team. I COULDN'T DO ANYTHING FOR THE TEAM LIKE THAT. and now whoever quits the low priority servers i keep joining, it adds up to my punishment as they say, my punishment list. in numbers, well i'm currently at 5, yeah, it's fun to pay off my punishment, for having to quit! and that's why my review is now 8 out of 10, not 9 out of 10 anymore, thanks valve, way to make me hate your game, i still like this game enough to play it and have fun with it, but i'm stuck having to wait out in servers a sitting duck (Cause the lag is too much to bear, i'll only be feeding myself to the enemy.) until my numbers run dry!   hopefully thing review provides a lengthy opinion on why you i recommend it. this game was put together greatly, but still failed in a big part of me, i believe this game deserves a 8 out of 10. 