Rating based on current state of play, as per my last login. The last time i logged in, there was nearly no one to play with, things were stagnating, and there was far less to do as a 'greenie' (nonsubscriber on subscriber oceans) than there seemed to have felt like in the past. Even if i had resub'd, there didn't see that much to do, let alone anyone to do any of it with. I played y!pp on and off for so. So. So. Many years. I believe my first account was made somewhere in 05 to 06, putting me at roughly the 9-10 year mark. While i played more off than on, those times during which i did play i would get completely sucked back into my ocean for weeks, if not months. When i was a bit younger, this game was tremendous amounts of fun. This has more to do with the fact that the ocean(s) were far more populated back then than they are these days, even after the colossal oceans merge. I was originally on cobalt i believe, which during the prime of my play-days was the ocean to be on. As i got older, i began to better understand the mechanics of the games i was actually playing, which made me better at them - but, alas, there weren't many people to play with anymore. The puzzles themselves are clever and a lot of fun. Most of them are simple enough to begin with that anyone could jump right in; still, they also have layers of depth enough to keep amused those whom understand the advanced concepts to each (insane amounts of chaining, combos out the booty, etc etc). The variety of things to do seemed pretty much endless for awhile. From jobbing to running pillages; sloshing down drinks and throwing down rounds of poker, hearts, spades; exploring uninhabited islands; playing borderline-impossible games of hide-and-seek with me mates and trying to make everyone play on the fair (aka clickable; looking at you, dock arrow hiders!); running a shoppe; blockading islands; and so much more. There are so many awesome puzzles sprawled all across the game, and they are all extremely unique. You can spend hours working on your ability to perform incredibles on one of the half dozen or more ship/duty puzzles; then go manage your shoppe/stalls and put in work hours at the awesome crafting puzzles; then spend a couple hours running commodities from port to port; go in search of el polo diablo for kicks and giggles and much insta death lols; then chill out at the tavern with drinks, game puzzles, swordfighting duels, and players buying, selling, trading, looking or advertising for crews, trying to pick a fight, and more. Then there are blockades, monster hunts, skeleton/zombie island take overs, contests, avatar outfitting, homes and ships of all sorts of sizes and designs to buy, paint, and decorate, parties to throw... Yeah. Lots to do. As a game that was hugely social in its prime, seeing the excruciatingly slow and painful death of y!pp (esp the sub oceans) was... Really, really sad. I miss this game a lot, and really wish it could be revived. Once spiral knights started to take off, things went downhill. I've never really found any other games quite like pp. The thorough permeation of theme, the way it was kid-friendly but not so much so that it was off-putting or unappealing to adults, how one could play casually, socially, or fer-srs. This game is both niche yet massively appealing to the masses, especially in the casual mobile gaming world of today. What would be super. Freaking. Awesome! ? if y!pp were to produce a sequel, or a spiritual successor, or something like that. The system itself worked quite well - $10/month subscription is very fair. Some things would need to be reworked a bit, and i can easily see how expansive it could get. An enormous open-world you could explore on your own or with your crew, finding hidden, previously undiscovered islands in the far corners of the world, exploring overwhelming jungles, diving into the deep-sea ruins of atlantis in search of treasure and adventure, brave the misty swamplands of the cursed isles, all while interacting with diverse wildlife and a population of both advanced ai npcs and other players; yet still keeping the original base concept of the game (crews, pillages, plunders, and puzzles)... I lost many hundreds of hours to the original y!pp - and i can easily see myself pouring hundreds more into its successor, if it were done right. But right now? the game isn't worth playing unless you want a poor social experience (if any), a few puzzles to play (these days the only puzzles you can play without a subscription are ship duty puzzles such as bilge, carp, sails, rigs, etc), and an empty, empty, linear world in which you don't so much explore as you do sail in a straight light along a pre-dotted path from island to island, archipelago to archipelago. Perhaps you could even buy up a stash of little blue potions and whisk yourself to quiet, abandoned port towns and long-forgotten jungle islands, just to see what could have been.