I think this point is moot for the time being because (as of last tuesday) we are not dealing with bidder d. I think it is ok legally to go this way -- although there is potential liability under the warn act (the plant closing law). We probably can schedule around that exposure, though, by giving everyone who possibly may be affected 60 days' notice. Practically, however, this would not be my favorite approach. I'd prefer it if we could have the ability to compete for top performers, but we should be able to manage that by working through the persons who we identify and present for possible hiring by the buyer. I would like more information about what is meant by "ena does not interfere with" the offers made by the buyer. Does that mean no counteroffers? to answer the question of whether we can bind all of enron, i would say that it is unlikely, unless we want to ask. It is easier to commit only the wholesale group, rather than ask corp., ees, broadband, etc. Whether they will abide by the agreement, so i would recommend limiting it to that group, if possible. We may be able to include the pipelines, given that they have been involved in this transaction. Let me know if you have any questions. Last thursday, i made the first attached presentation to the ferc staff at the power marketer's meeting on the ferc's investigation of the wholesale market in the west (and in particular california). Ellen wolf (of tabors caramanis) and i created this presentation building on previous presentations by tim belden and dave parquet. In the presentation and the meeting we made the following points: there isn't much ferc can do because the cause of the price spikes is not in the wholesale market. We discouraged ferc from taking any action that would hurt the vibrant wholesale market in the california and the rest of the west as well. High prices logically resulted from scarcity and if the commission does anything it should (1) investigate whether market power was being exercised by any party and, (2) if necessary to protect the market (while still incenting needed generation) establish a price cap at a scarcity rent level equal to the price at which loads were willing to interrupt. The ious have not properly prepared for the risk of high prices caused by scarcity. They have failed to hedge and have underscheduled their load, therefore having to fill a large percentage of their load at iso real time prices. My analogy was that this was like day trading your retirement fund as an asset allocation scheme. The market would function better if more information was provided to the market. The commission should do whatever it can to incent participation by load. To see the presentation, detach, save, and view in powerpoint. When you do, you will find there are many "hidden" slides that were not part of the oral presentation but were provided to staff in hard copy for additional information. According to the head of the investigation (scott miller), the staff got alot more out of this meeting than staff's previous meetings with the ious and the generators. Based on the numerous phone calls i've been getting, the staff is looking into the data we provided. I have also attached a revised version of the presentation that tim sent to scott miller on friday. Tim's version conveys the same message but takes a different approach to conveying the message. On friday, tim talked to scott and answered some additional questions. Tim said that enron is in favor of eliminating the mandatory px buying requirement and would like the ious to be able to buy from enron online. He also explained more fully the existence of scarcity . This e-mail is intended to reach all of those who have expressed an interest in being part of the legal work group subgroup addressing the rto bylaws, articles and tax status. Please let me know if my e-mail distribution list is missing anyone who would like to participate in the subgroup. I would divide the immediate tasks before us into four main categories: 1. General governance issues (especially rto membership, board composition and technical advisory committee issues) at the governance workshop on june 15, we had a good discussion of issues relating to the appropriate number and scope of membership classes, board composition and method of selecting the members of the technical advisory committee. Barney speckman is in the process of scheduling a meeting in early july for a continuation of discussion of these topics and any other governance issues that may be of interest. 2. Board and employee conflict of interest provisions/board member qualifications one element of the rto bylaws that will require a fair amount of thought and discussion is the appropriate nature and extent of the trustee and employee disqualification/conflict of interest provisions. Another such element is the required qualifications of the rto board members. John buechler of the new york iso has prepared for us a good summary of the board member qualifications that have been adopted or are under consideration by various existing or proposed isos, and barney speckman will distribute copies of john's summary to the group. I would like to have a discussion of these issues at the next meeting, with the aim of preparing and circulating one or more straw man proposals as soon thereafter as possible. 3. Consideration of jurisdiction of incorporation/conforming revisions to bylaws indego was proposed to be formed in utah, in large part because utah's nonprofit corporation law was determined as of three years ago to contain the most favorable provisions for trustee indemnification of any state in which indego was proposed to operate. Rto west, the nonprofit corporation that is serving as the vehicle for our rto in formation, was incorporated this spring in washington in large part on the strength of washington's provisions for indemnification of nonprofit corporation trustees. Our subgroup needs to review the laws of the states in which rto west would operate, and come up with a recommendation as to whether consideration should be given to incorporation of the rto in any state other than washington. Once a determination is made as to the appropriate state for incorporation, the bylaws will need to be conformed to the requirements of that state's nonprofit corporation law. Anyone who is interested in helping out on these fronts is most welcome. 4. Potential rto application for tax exemption the california iso has been qualified for exemption from federal income tax, and a determination needs to be made whether such qualification would be appropriate for rto west as well. Our subgroup has been given the task of identifying the relevant considerations to be taken into account in making the determination whether to seek tax-exempt status. Robb roberts and sanjiv kripalani have expressed interest in helping to undertake this analysis. If any of the rest of you is interested in participating, please let me know. I will be out of the office for the next week-and-a-half, but will be checking voice mail and e-mail regularly. I look forward to seeing you all soon. I am the only person on the north team that expects to utilize the tuition reimbursement for 2002. Approximate costs and details are as follows: masters of business administration degree completion: august 2002 18 hours remaining tuition = $5,130.00 ($285/hour) books = $900.00 total cost = $6,030 let me know if you have any other questions. Thanks. This year the office of labor & employee relations (oler) is pleased to provide your business unit's 2001 affirmative action program online. The online site contains the documentation required to meet our regulatory obligations including the aap narrative, goals and utilization analysis. We have also included links to critical eeo/aa policies and related information. We are excited about this opportunity to simplify your access to this critical and important information. Please reference this web-site when you have an open position that needs to be filled or when considering transferring and promoting employees. The url link is listed at the bottom of this message. Through our affirmative action programs we take positive steps to ensure that we deliver on our commitment to eeo. Affirmative action is not about quotas for women or minorities nor is it about preferential treatment to less qualified candidates because of their race, gender, disability or veteran status. Through affirmative action, we seek to establish a "level playing field" for all employees and applicants, regardless of race, gender, disability or veteran status. We use statistical analyses of employment patterns as indicators of whether the playing field is truly level. The aap contains proprietary information, therefore it should not be shared with anyone outside of enron. If your operating company is participating in a bidding process where eeo/aap information is requested, please forward those requests to the corporate office of labor & employee relations at eb1561 or call (713) 853-3086. Please refer to enron's code of ethics book for guidance concerning your obligations of confidence with proprietary company information. Although the aap contains proprietary information and belongs to enron corp., the narrative section is to be made available for review during regular work hours to all job applicants and employees who ask to see it. We ask that these requests be forwarded through human resources and that the web site you are accessing not be shared. We would also like to take this opportunity to reaffirm the strong commitment of enron corp. To the principle of equal employment opportunity in its personnel policies and practices. It is our company policy to recruit, hire, train, and promote into all job levels, the most qualified employees and applicants for employment, without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, disability, or veteran status. All employee selections are based on (1) inclusive recruitment and outreach efforts, and the merit, qualifications and competence of individuals for the particular positions, and (2) consistently providing equal employment opportunity. We believe that a diverse workforce is a strength, and that as we implement personnel policies and practices which foster fair treatment on the basis of race, sex and disability, we promote equitable employment opportunities for all employees and applicants. Enron administers all personnel programs and employment opportunities without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, pregnancy, national origin, physical or mental disability, veteran status, or status as an alien authorized to work in the united states. Such employment programs and opportunities include, but are not limited to, compensation, benefits, transfers, layoff, leaves of absence, return from layoff, training, education, tuition assistance, and company-sponsored social and recreational programs. We have developed and implemented the 2001 affirmative action program (aap) to support our commitment to the principle of equal employment opportunity and meet federal and state requirements. The aap describes, in detail, the policies and procedures used in the company's operations to carry out its commitment. Your company's eeo officer, as stipulated in your plan narrative, is responsible for administering the company's affirmative action program and will report to senior management on a continuing basis with regard to the progress being made under the aap. If you have questions, comments or concerns about enron's equal opportunity and affirmative action policies, please speak with your supervisor or your human resource representative. As with any rollout of a new web-site, errors, while not expected, may occur. Please contact aa program@enron.com if you are unable to log-in or experience any difficulties. We would recommend that once you access the site you add it to your "favorites" list for future reference. Http://aap.enron.com/default.asp?u=2451&p=fwkoshpgi have reviewed the la plata facilities o&o agreement. Lee, could you please review the same and see if you agree with this assessment? it appears to me that the pigging facilties could qualify as either of the following: special services. This would be subject to prior written consent and agreement between the operator (tw) and the operating committee (tw & nwplrepresentatives). If nwpl agreed, their share of the cost would be in proportion to their ownership interest. If we did obtain their approval, future o&m cost attributable to the pigging facilities could be shared among the owners. (we've agreed to a flat fee for 2000 through 2003 with a 3.5% escalator starting in 2001.) addition or expansion. Demonstrate that the pigging will add incremental transmission capacity. We have to give notice to nwpl and they have 60 days to participate. If they participate, they share in the cost at their ownership interest, but they get a share of the incremental capacity at their ownership interest. If they don't indicate a desire to participate in 60 days, we can proceed with the expansion (without any approval, but also no cost sharing). Also, any incremental o&m associated with an expansion cannot be passed on to any owners not participating in such expansion. I think if we went the special services route, we would need to justify the need for these facilities to maintain the integrity and efficiency of the facilities at current levels. I think we would spend alot of time arguing this with them and in the end they would probably approve it subject to them not incurring any cost. (they probably don't have $260,000 ($1.5mm * .174) sitting around in a budget somewhere that they'd like to fork over for these facilities.) rich, what do you think? how difficult would it be to demonstrate that these facilities are necessary for maintaining the current operating levels of the facilities? recommendation: to save us the 60 days notice period of an expansion, i think we should notify them that it's a necessary special service and ask for approval (& to pass along their share of the cost), but to be prepared to eat 100% of the costs to obtain their timely approval and proceed with the installation of the facilities. In this event we would need to agree on the inclusion of future o&m attributable to these facilities. Fyi, their ownership interest is still officially 22.3% since they have not executed the amendment that has been tendered to them 3 times, first by me and twice by lynn blair. If they execute the amendment that incorporates the 4/1/98 expansion of the facilities, their ownership interest will be 17.4%.in response to glen hass' voicemail identifying his concerns regarding the remaining mainline capacity going west, i have included additional data on the revised file attached below. Only the second worksheet entitled 'tw primary holder' was modified. I have added the remaining contract data where capacity is held in arizona. I have also provided sub-totals and totals where applicable for ease of verification. Please feel free to contact me if you need additional information. I will continue to check my voicemail/email periodically during my vacation. Your last paragraph is right on man. It just the commie business practice that bites. Again, my view of the world is that the transmission should be associated with the sink control area - they are the one who takes it home. The source control area shouldn't have the fake transmission. Guess part of the problem is due to cas not registering as tps which would make things much more consistent. Psei will take nor, singlebus, gf (if we're not looking), midc-midc, and other creative entries for the oasis number for midc-midc transactions. Attached please find a proposal by john morris to prepare an economic analysis of pipeline affiliate concentration into specific geographic destination markets vis-a-vis non-affiliates.? i would like to discuss this proposal with our group on thursday afternoon (2:00 est).? i will forward on call-in instructions tomorrow.? please be aware that this proposal is privileged and confidential and was prepared as attorney-client work product.?? mr. Morris' information is set forth below.? it may be valuable to ask mr. Morris to join us for the conference call in order to answer your questions. Michelle, i hope your week is going well. Please find attached the resume of mitch ludwin. Mitch has great academics (jd '89 cum laude-top 8%, law review, order of the coif, etc.) and extensive transactions experience with an emphasis on finance. Mitch is currently senior associate at troutman sanders in atlanta. Mitch was originally from new york and began his career practicing for three years with cadwalader, wickersham & taft in that city. Mitch then joined mudge, rose, guthrie, alexander y ferdon, spending two years with the firm's new york office, followed by a year and a half with the firm's los angeles office. Upon dissolution of mudge, rose, mitch joined fried, frank, harris, shriver & jacobson in los angeles. Mitch then accepted an opportunity with foley & lardner in milwaukee, where he practiced four years. Mitch joined the firm to participate in the start up of the firm's project finance practice and to be closer to his wife's family. This area of the firm's practice did not develop as anticipated and the attorneys brought in with this expertise moved to other firms. Mitch joined troutman to focus on asset-based lending. I would be happy to provide any additional information concerning mitch which you may wish and to arrange an interview, if you so desire. I anticipate receiving a transactions list, which i will forward to you. I have also submitted mitch's resume to enron energy services for consideration. Following is info on bps, pipeline segment and ec meetings in april / may. Fyi - on the triage call this afternoon, kim announced the following bps schedule for dealing with the recall order: ** wed 4/3 conference call 8:30 - 12:30 central - agenda - only to identify the issues and not to work on any of the issues at this point ** wed/thurs 4/10 - 4/11 face to face @ con ed in nyc ** wed 4/24 conference call 8:30 - 12:30 central ** tues/wed 4/30-5/1 face to face in houston - probably @ cms kim indicated that on the 4/24 call we'd know better what additional meetings might be needed. I suggested that since the technical and ir are meetings are in houston mon may 13 (tech) and tues/wed may 14-15 (ir), that if there needs to be another face to face about that time, that we could possibly have it that thursday and friday (may 16-17) in houston. Stay tuned on any dates after the may 1 meeting. Kim is going to try to have the naesb office post this schedule this afternoon. ** kim also asked me to remind everyone about the pipeline segment meeting to prepare for the bps meetings (see her e-mail of 3/15/02) date: 3/27/2002 time: 9:00 a.m. - 3:00 p.m. Central location: cms panhandle eastern pipe line 5444 westheimer, houston, 77056 please check in with the 7th floor receptionist. Conference calling will be available. If you have not done so already, please send kim an email letting her know if you will attend in person or via conference call. ** last but not least, april ec meeting - the naesb web page shows it as being a 2-day meeting - thursday 4/18 and friday 4/19. I confirmed with jim buccigross this morning that it will only be a one day meeting on thursday 4/18 in dc. Have a great weekend and keep those travel departments busy. Just think about all the wonderful places you can go as your frequent flyer accounts build up this year! note: with dynegy as anchor, ngpl is planning on building a lateral into st. Louis for the first time. Mrt (a reliant pipeline) has been the only pipeline into this market. Ngpl plans lateral to serve illinois power in st. Louis natural gas pipeline company of america (ngpl) announced plans to build a new 47-mile, 24-inch diameter pipeline lateral into st. Louis to serve illinois power's gas distribution system. The $35 million project, which is anchored by a contract with illinois power affiliate dynegy marketing and trade, will add at least 300,000 dth/d of gas transportation capacity to the st. Louis market. "the pipeline project and related agreements ideally demonstrate our ongoing strategy to expand our natural gas pipeline services into growing markets currently not connected to ngpl and to increase throughput on our system by adding electric load to our extensive pipeline network," said richard d. Kinder, ceo of kinder morgan inc., the parent company of ngpl. The new lateral will extend from centralia, il, to a point on illinois power's gas distribution system in the east st. Louis market. The project is scheduled for completion in june of 2002. Ngpl and dynegy entered into a number of long-term, gas transportation and storage contracts, including a 10-year agreement effective june 1, 2002, which will provide dynegy with 90,000 dth/d of gas via the new pipeline. In addition, ngpl and dynegy entered into various other firm transportation agreements totaling another 98,000 dth/d of gas sourced from ngpl's gulf coast and amarillo lines beginning as early as dec. 1, 2000. The ngpl project effectively creates a new supplier for a geographical area that until now has been served by just one natural gas transportation company [mississippi river transmission], according to larry f. Altenbaumer, president of illinois power. "this new connection to illinois power's system will help open competitive opportunities to natural gas customers in the metro east area of st. Louis. It not only provides for a new delivery point to service customers directly, but also to fuel electric generation in the area. "the 10-year agreement to provide firm transportation service to dynegy provides us a solid anchor customer for the pipeline project," said deb macdonald, president of ngpl. Ngpl intends to solicit expressions of interest from other shippers in december and january. The results of the open season will determine the final scope of the project. "with dynegy as our anchor customer, we will build the new lateral into the st. Louis market regardless of whether we receive other expressions of interest," said macdonald. "we anticipate a strong response, however, given the size of the market and the potential for additional gas-fired power generation." interested shippers should contact mark menis, ngpl's director of business development, at (630) 691-3347. The iso has posted on its web site a template for your use in submitting your final comments on the iso's congestion management reform recommendation that is part of its comprehensive market redesign. The template is posted at http://www.caiso.com/clientserv/congestionreform.html <http://www.caiso.com/clientserv/congestionreform.html> . Final comments are due to bwoertz@caiso.com <mailto:bwoertz@caiso.com> by 5:00 p.m. Pdt on thursday, august 31. We will include a summary of all comments received to the iso governing board as part of the cmr recommendation for their approval. Please note that the template asks you to identify the name of the person submitting comments, the name of your organization (please limit comments to one set per organization) and whether you would like to have your comments posted on the iso web site. Please contact me if you have any questions. John van gelder has recently transferred from ebs-portland to work in the west origination group. John began working with enron energy services as a summer intern in 1998. In january 2000, he started working with enron broadband services, and was promoted from associate to manager while working with their wholesale origination group. John received his bachelors degree in mechanical engineering at the university of kansas and completed the master's program at the university of michigan's school of business administration. Please welcome john to our portland office! the year-end performance review process is upon us. I will send out a complete list of procedures and deadlines in the next few days. In the meantime, we need to get each person's selection for reviewers into the system. Amy fitzpatrick has kindly volunteered to coordinate this process and make sure that all of the information gets into the system. You need to select 5 people from the floor and up to 3 people from off the floor (if you have worked with people outside of the portland office). You can select anybody (except your manager), with the goal of getting 360 degree feedback from peers, people who you work with, people whose work you impact, people with a higher title, and/or people with a lower title. Here is what i need you to do asap (close of business on monday at the latest): send an e-mail to amy fitzpatrick and your manager listing 5 people on the floor who you would like to provide feedback on you. List the people in preference order. Include up to 3 additional people who are not on the floor, but work at enron. Do not include your manager as a reviewer -- your manager already is responsible for reviewing your performance. You do not have to enter these names into the pep system. We will do it for you.how about them lakers ! ! ! there is only one thing i can say..... Or maybe 3 words. Men against boys ! !. Didn't they just kick ass! they are peaking at just the right time. The dodgers are in first place and the kings have gone beyond everyone's expectations. Life is good in southern california. On the down side, ramon got admitted into the hospital over the weekend. It started out as a problem with very low blood sugar but then escalated into a weak heart problem with very shallow breathing. They have him on a respirator and plan to wean him off of that this morning. Cita is all stressed out but thank god that one of her neighbors is spending the night with her. We're getting an update today on some tests performed on ramon, so we'll know alot more. Cita is doing fairly well. I took her for a four hour heart exam last week and it revealed that her last heart attack caused some arterial damage. The doctor said that if she was younger, he would perform angioplasty. In any case, her spirits are remarkably high and is still mentally sharp. On another matter, i got a call last friday from ford motor credit regarding your account. They left a number and asked if you could call them because "they have not been able to reach you". The number they left was 877-873-0085. Apparently, you left me as a reference on the application. Hope you are doing ok and am looking forward to seeing you in june!note attached sdg&e press release calling on governor davis to use his emergency powers to remedy the accelerating energy crisis by taking a number of actions, e.g., directing local air districts to temporarily lift emissions limits for in-state power plants so that the plants which have met or exceeded their air-emissions limits can run. In addition, sdg&e reported it made an emergency filing with ferc requesting an immediate reinstatement of price caps on interstate natural gas pipeline transportation to the ca border.attached find enron power marketing, inc., and enron energy services' responses to the staff's data requests in the federal energy regulatory commission's bulk power investigation. These responses assumes that you sent separate data requests to enron wind, so they do not include that information. The answers also assume you are requesting this information for california (and therefore the western interconnect) only. Please let me know if these assumptions are incorrect. If you were requesting eastern interconnect information you need to contact chrisit nicolay at the above e-mail address. Enron requests confidential treatment of response numbers 2, 3, 4, 6, and 8 pursuant to 18 c.f.r. Section 388.112. Due to the short turn around time for these requests we were unable to respond to question 8 and to provide the unit identifier requested in question 4. We hope to be able to provide this information on monday. Please call me with any questions at (503) 464-8862. I will be traveling on monday, so if you call then, call my cell phone at 503 807-0929. This announcement has not gone out for that reason. We have had a number of discussions about it since this was drafted and there seems to be some concern about it being inside one of the business units since it is supposed to handle investments across the company and would be bringing the ebs assets with it. Your suggestion that it might report to andy has some merit, but there may be other options. What would you think if we established an investment committee consisting of me, rice, and delainey and made garland responsible to that group. We would have all of the relevent business units represented and the p&l would ultimately be allocated to the one in which the investment originated. Do you think that would work? it might go a long way to satisfying all constituents. Please confirm your interest and availability to set aside 30 minutes, or so dec 6, 7 or 8, for me in houston this week. I am in a final phase of an expat re-assignment or relocation and would like to discuss with you: enron's pricing, structuring and position-taking capability for south america etc.,.. Expected to be in place from the year 2000, at least in power in brazil. Failure/successes and immediate opportunities in the enron brazil and south america core (gas, power) and multiple commodity commercial effort(s), including e-business/networks issues. Finance expertise - the critical role that functional groups like enron metals' (trade and structure finance group) and the global markets insurance/global risk groups will (need to) play in helping develop critical, internal enron finance, risk assessment and mitigation expertise to support the competitiveness and viability of closing commercial transactions in south america and elsewhere my priority to help form and be re-assigned to a "bundle products" origination business unit designed to initiate transactions which specifically and formally leverage synergies across enron business units - to potentially include in brazil, at least, power, pulp & paper, steel networks, crude and products, and insurance/global risk. Please find attatched files which detail some of my ideas for developing the core gas and power trading and origination efforts and including the bundled product unit. The files were appropriately forwarded to dave/john. I have also attatched my cv should you be interested to review my background and experience and mention, as a reminder, that a meeting is critical in potentially determining the outcome of my expat re-assignment or re-location process, needed to be concluded this month, dec 2000. Thank you for any efforts extended in my behalf. On friday, december 28, 2001, the office of ratepayer advocates ("ora") filed a motion requesting that the commission suspend the procedural schedule in the socalgas/sdg&e 2003 bcap. Ora also requests that the time to respond to its motion be shortened to ten days (jan. 7). Ora's motion comes in the wake of the commission's final decision in the gas industry restructuring proceeding, decision ("d.") 01-12-018, which was voted out on december 11, 2001. As you know, that decision adopts the comprehensive settlement agreement ("csa"), to which transwestern is a party, with modifications. Socalgas and sdg&e have notified the commission that they will need to file revised bcap applications (and supporting testimony) to reflect the impact of the csa. Socalgas has not given a date certain for the submission of its revised application, but hopes to provide that information to the commission by mid-january. Sdg&e plans on submitting its revised bcap application 15 days after socalgas makes its filing. In its motion, ora requests that the commission suspend the procedural schedule in the bcap, under which ora is scheduled to submit its "report" (direct testimony) on march 22, 2002, until after socalgas and sdg&e have submitted their revised applications. After socalgas and sdg&e make their filings, the commission would convene a second pre-hearing conference to adopt a new procedural schedule. It is unlikely socalgas will submit its revised bcap application before the end of january. If sdg&e takes another 15 days to submit its revised application, that would leave a month, at most, under the current schedule for ora to prepare its report. That is not enough time for ora to get its act together, especially given the two cost allocation methodologies which may be at issue in the bcap. Thus, it is very likely the commission will grant ora's motion. At a minimum, the alj will establish a new schedule after socalgas informs the commission of the date when it will submit its revised application. Ora's motion does not raise any substantive issues. The fact of the matter is that the procedural schedule in the bcap is going to slip even more as a result of adoption of the csa. How much it will slip primarily depends on how quickly socalgas prepares its revised application. Accordingly, we do not believe it is necessary for transwestern to respond to ora's motion. Please do not hesitate to call or write if you have any questions. I attended the ferc commission meeting this morning and it was short and refreshing. Here are some high points: ferc issues an order rejecting the proposed amendment to the caiso creditworthiness provisions, and granting in part the complaint of the generators in the docket (which we supported). The caiso is ordered to enforce the existing creditworthiness provisions of its tariff and invoice cdwr for transactions with the non-creditworthy ious, within 15 days. Otherwise, ferc will seek injunctive relief in court to enforce its order. Also, a creditworthy party must be provided and bills paid, otherwise, the must offer requirement will be suspended (applies to california). Commissioner massey dissented on the suspension of the must offer requirement. Wood indicated that he supported the order as written and quipped that "the iso must now do what we told them to do the 3rd time!" the remaining commissioners voted in favor. Unanimous vote on a 6-page order which establishes the ferc "business plan" on how it will move forward on rto's, electricity market design and structure, so that faster progress can be made. Watch for a future order relaxing the ferc's ex parte rules to facilitate communication between ferc and state commissioners. The idea is that communications will be more freely made and that a transcript of the communication will be filed in the record of the proceeding to comply with due process and other legal requirements. I gathered the above from the discussions held at the meeting as the draft orders are not yet available. We will review them upon receipt, and update this e-mail if necessary. Trading, origination, asset services, and community affairs have purchased a box suite (17 seats) at pge park. This entitles these groups the opportunity to have a total of 17 people attend each home beavers and timbers game. The enron pge park committee (comprised of some employees from the groups above) is working together to ensure equitable distribution of tickets so that everyone on the floor will have an opportunity to attend games. In order to allocate tickets in the most beneficial way to those who are interested, please respond to the following questions by monday afternoon, april 30. If you would prefer to reply verbally, stop by debra's desk and she will write them down. Debra also has information about the games if you have questions. Are you interested in attending any timbers soccer games? if yes to timbers games, about how many games would you like to attend? if yes to timbers games, how many tickets would you be interested in getting? are you interested in attending any beavers baseball games? if yes to beavers games, about how many games would you like to attend? if yes to beavers games, how many tickets would you be interested in getting for each game? if you have no interest in attending beavers or timbers games, please let debra know. Keep in mind that there must be at least one enron employee with guests. Tickets cannot be given away or sold. Contact debra if you have any questions. Saturday night sounds great, darlene is in south africa for the next 2 weeks so i'm ready. Call me at home 713-588-5176 or at work 713-853-3917. Golf also sound good, another guy from calgary who now works down here chris dorland, i think you've met him before, wants to golf as well. Look forward to seeing you. Hi matthew, greg will be in the london office from early tuesday afternoon through end-of-business day on thursday, june 7. Are you available to meet w/him for about an hour? he's available tuesday afternoon until 5:00 p.m. Wednesday there are a few slots available, and thursday he is wide open. Please advise. If you could e-mail me your availability that would be great. Also, greg will be carrying mobile number +44 7901516638. Enron announces unlimited discounted astroworld tickets for employees. Due to overwhelming employee feedback, we have negotiated unlimited discounted astroworld tickets for you and your family in place of the traditional "enron day at astroworld." we hope this will allow enron families to plan their fun-filled summer trips to astroworld at their own convenience. Enron astroworld tickets are $20.56 (retail $50), which includes admission for one, plus a $7 meal ticket to one of five restaurants at astroworld. Six flags astroworld is a world-class family entertainment complex filled with exciting rides and attractions, including 10 heart-pounding coasters, over 40 blockbuster shows, interactive street entertainers and star-studded concerts. Enron families will be able to purchase unlimited tickets for use anytime during the 2001 season. Tickets will be on sale at enron's federal credit union, eb0399. Visit the credit union in person to make your purchases. Astroworld tickets will not be mailed. Enron employees who are not already enron fcu members may pay by cash or money order only. All enron employees are encouraged to take advantage of this great summer fun deal and may purchase tickets through august 30th.all: the new full registry for testing for expanded testing (interoperability and end-to-end) can be found on the bottom of the page at: http://www.nerc.com/~filez/tag/e-tag/e-tag.htm these files include a snapshot of the full registry taken last friday as well as the test registry previously being used by the vendors for interoperability testing. All production urls have been replaced by test urls from the vendors. There was a slight delay in the issuance of this test registry due a death in paul baratelli's family. Contact lynn costantini if there are any problems. If an individual company wishes to test their own "home grown" software, the test urls should be sent to paul baratelli (paul.baratelli@nerc.net), with copies to lynn costantini (lynn.costantini@nerc.net) and me (bob.cummings@nerc.net). Please note that some of the csv files were updated on 11/12/01 and some on 11/09/01. The newer files contain updates to the test urls made today. We are pleased to announce that ees, fieldcentrix and a group of outside investors have formed a new company to be referred to as the facility services group. This group is charged with creating a national service network to provide predictable and scalable repair, maintenance and other facilities services for retail customers, including many of ees's existing and future customers. The facility services group is expanding its vendor management platform to allow service technicians to focus on efficient, predictable service while capturing data on a real time basis and will provide scalable execution capability for the vendor management and o&m products. We expect these products and services to create significant value. The facility services group includes enron building services, inc. (ebsi), the linc company, the hvac services business (all three, formerly part of enron facility services), interactive process technologies (ipt) and fieldcentrix, inc., a mobile workforce management software company. The management team of the facility services group will include existing management from these companies. Fieldcentrix is a leading provider of wireless, internet-based field force automation software. Founded in 1994, the 125-employee company was recently named one of frontline solutions top 100 companies and also received the cingular best solution award for 2001. The facility services group will use the fieldcentrix and ipt platforms to provide a superior predictive and preventative maintenance program through vendor management to customers. Tracy price, president and ceo of fieldcentrix, will lead the facility services group. The remaining components of enron facility services (efs) will be re-organized into the construction services group. This group will be led by steve wurzel and will include: limbach facility services, the architecture & engineering group and the construction management services group. The construction services group will continue to provide engineering and construction services to third parties and ees. We expect this group to continue to be an important and valuable part of ees's financial performance. Dave whaley will continue to manage the shared services groups, including legal, finance, hr, and it, across the facility services group and the construction services group. The centralization and sharing of these support services is cost effective, scalable and responsive. In addition, dave will assist in the transition of the efs companies to the facility services group. Joe earle has decided to leave enron at the end of this year. Until then, joe will continue to work with the line businesses and assist with the transition of the efs companies to the facility services group and the construction services group. Under his leadership, efs and all of its companies have continued to be leaders in their fields. Please join us in thanking joe for his 10 years of leadership with the efs companies. The re-alignment of our activities and the creation of a new entity to focus solely on serving the $136 billion facility services market will assist our entire organization in achieving our 2002 and beyond goals and objectives.i thought that you might be interested in our new monthly newsletter, energy competition strategy report. It contains detailed strategies on how to tackle the complex challenges of deregulation. Topics covered include customer education; retail marketing; telecom and other value creation strategies; investor relations; marketing programs that land big commercial accounts; cis and related information technology challenges; new services and creative ways to package them; relationship-building with regulators, customers, and employees; and much more. To receive a 3-month, no-obligation free trial and a $100-off charter discount, just e-mail your mailing address, phone and fax number to nhi@nhionline.net or call 1-800-597-6300 and mention offer "csre51." hey there guzman! you said you didn't have my e-mail, so here ya are bro. So, did you go to game 3 the other day? i didn't get to watch it 'cause i went abalone diving in fort bragg. I did however see they had a significant lead toward the end of fourth (as i stopped in a mini-mart to get a coke). Maybe you could fill me in on the details...did you get a chance to talk with kobe after the game? friday they're gonna cut the dead wood out of my elbow. Hopefully it won't take long to heal up, and then i'll be headed up that way, to corvallis, to look for a place for the summer. I took my subject gre on saturday and felt pretty good about it. Of course, they make you wait six weeks to get the results back from a scantron test. We must be in the computer age. Well alright then, i'll let you get back to work so that the citizens of this great nation don't miss out on any great power bargains. Let me know when you have your days off. Stacey is graduating on the 19th, so i'll be in sacramento then...but after that i'll probably be heading up that way to have a pitcher at clods.