                 Yesterday was not a terribly good day for me - something I had eaten on the weekend was bothering me the whole day. I went to the dojo in the morning to train since I had my driving test in the afternoon (to get a NSW license because I still carry my Brunei license that doesn't have a photo).  The karate day classes are funny; sometimes there'll be heaps of people and like yesterday, there was 3 of us. Not that small classes are a bad thing, but I find they lack the energy of a big group. It also makes it hard for the instructor to conduct a lively class with so few students (in my experience at least). It sure was in stark contrast to the group of 42 girls from Sydney Girls who came in after our class! (They're John's pet project - he approached the school and asked whether they could use a martial arts instructor.) Anyways, these girls elected to do martial arts as a subject and they come into the dojo every monday morning. That is just M-A-D! I wish I got to do martial arts in school... *place big sook here*  When I got back to Penrith and made it to the RTA 20 minutes early for my appointment I got the feeling that something was wrong when I realised they had mis-spelled my surname on the booking sheet. When I brought this to their attention they asked me whether I had a birth certificate on hand because it is procedure to do so when correcting typos or whatever... since I didn't have it handy ('yea sure, I keep it in my back pocket so I can show people now and then') I drove back to get it since I had enough time before my appointment with the testing officer.  When I got back they realised that my current license does not have a date of 1st issue on it (well, I renewed it recently so it was issued last year) and they asked me whether I had my 1st license handy... I mentioned that it had already been copied and was in their system so I didn't need to bring it - to which the answer was, 'Well i'm sure you were told you need to bring back all the identification you brought with you when you booked your license test, which includes your 1st license.' Hello, my ID wasn't even CHECKED when I booked my license test... I felt like kicking up a fuss but the weird feeling in my stomach and the general bad vibe I got in the RTA prevented me from doing so. Besides, I like to consider myself a patient person.  Anyways, the testing officer wasn't too concerned with my documentation because she was concerned with who I was rather than the other nitpicky stuff - she said that stuff could be sorted out later after test. So we do the test and the result when I come back is a... FAIL, because I failed to come to a COMPLETE stop at an indicated stop sign on the road. Having driven for so long, you tend to take shortcuts when you do certain things on the road, such as not come to a complete stop but rather slow the car so that it is inching forwards, which makes it easier to get the damn thing moving again (I drive manuals, sue me) so you don't impede the 10 impatient bastards behind you honking like they're late for work the 5th time this week. Besides, you get good at spotting when there is NO traffic whatsoever. *sigh*  So yes I had to book another license test for $40. I could have used that $40 to buy more shirts. Or at least my groceries for the week. Dammit.  Today was much better though even though I'm still having trouble getting to sleep before 4am - I slept in till almost noon, which gave my body a much needed rest and leisurely got ready to go to training at 6pm. Training today was pretty good - I always enjoy kickboxing classes because I don't feel the pressure that comes with wearing a belt in karate. No one really minds if you're not giving 110% during class and you don't have the army-style discipline in karate that a lot of the pressure comes from (unless Shihan takes a kickboxing class, but that's a rarity these days).  My usual partner during kickboxing is Martin, who's been teasing me lately about fighting John Halford a lot. Now you see, John Halford is an AWESOME karateka and kickboxer - he's never lost to another Australian in karate competition and his record is like 80 wins, 3 losses. I'm not sure about his kickboxing record, but he does hold a world title in some category under some organisation. He was fighting in the Nationals where I fought at last year and was in the open middleweight (brown / black belts), which he won for the 6th straight year, and I was in intermediate middleweight (yellow / green belts). I've since graded to brown belt in December and it doesn't take a genius to figure out whose division I'm in this year.  The stuff he (Martin) says is quite amusing really. After I had gone through a sequence of some 160 kicks (blame Tony, our trainer), he said, 'That's it, Joel! John Halford's shaking in his boots now!'  After class, Hector (who's Cuban and an Olympic judoka) decided to grapple a little with me - now I've only grappled in my life once before, and that was with Amir, who's Iranian and has been wrestling since he could barely walk. Obviously, Amir smacked me around on the mat that day, but I still managed to hold a bit of my own. Anyways, Amir and Hector grappled one day and he made Amir tap like a typewriter, or so I hear since I didn't witness it. Amir himself told me Hector was trying to kill him. (You tap out in wrestling / grappling when someone has you in a hold and you can't get out of it - it's usually accompanied by a lot of pain when force is applied!)  I don't really know how to describe Hector - he's not very tall but he is a walking heap of muscle, his upper body would put most bodybuilders to shame. Think Ken Shamrock people... (http://www.webcom.com/collectr/wr/images/wpshamrockk.jpg) but bigger! So yes he's strong, but this guy has got impeccable technique. I swear he was wiping the floor with me but without using any strength. He's quick as hell too, I squirmed out of some of his holds but he'd just have me in another one before I could think! He nearly choked me out on the last one too. *cough cough* I should seriously start learning some stuff off this guy...  Yes I feel good now after training; maybe it's the endorphin rush, maybe it's the fact I survived Hector, but I guess there really is nothing like a good training session to make the world alright again. :)             