why do people need to blog? i came accross many thoughts on this - which list all the pros and cons of it... some say it helps you to be more expressive, while others just have it as a dear diary thingy that could be lenghty n apparently boring... shockingly, whoda told me that there was this one girl, who had a huge crush on this guy but dunno how to tell 'im, so she gave that bloke her blog add... sad? well, i'm not here to judge now... continue wt this blogging disease... joanna plak said that she doesn't understand why people read other ppl's blog? menyebok jek she said... it hit me a bit, cause that's what i do. but later, i realise that it's not worth taking offense of... there's truth in it, i also admitted it to jo - that i ni menyebok - in a laughable way that is, so that i dont create any tension in d air -which i dont intent to....but, lookin on the bright side --> i read other pip's blog to widen my horizon (cewah) of how life is out there... i'm here doing the stuff that i think is normal, but what if they aren't normal? even if it's sumthin' weird, there'll be this sense of relief once you know that somebody else is doing it! but, tak lah including those forbidden by god. Which, i did go thru st... but, like i say, it opens my eyes wider.... sumtimes i got shocked of the things i read... say if i hadn't read them, how on earth would I know about how KL life is? i really mean this! this whole while, i thought that evry kl-ians are just like me n my circles of friends... the ones going out to pubs are just chinese n other non muslims.. there are no drinkings among malays... and unmarried couples are not allowed to live together under the same roof cause eventually, they'll get caught.... BUT NOOOOOOO...... not until the moment i read these blogs that i realised the truth about it.. well, like i said, i'm not here to judge em....  soooo, salahkah saya membaca blog org lain?  hmm.... however, can't deny that it is procrastination and an excellent means of gossipping though... hahahah.... but life isn't just as spicy if i dont do those stuff u know.... plus, lets face it, without gossipping, u'll be the last to know about everything and that makes u feel being left behind... heheheh.... ok lah, in a nutshell, i don't think that blogging (either reading or writing) is wrong.... just when it takes too long of my time like right now it is! so, key off dulu ya! i need to study, exam 2 weeks lagi kekekekek.... bye!