Summer TV   TV in the summer used to be a dead zone full of repeats or something. But now there are two great new shows on TV and I have been watching both religiously for the last week.      Blow Out  The Gayest Concept ever that seemingly has zero gay people in sight. Hairstylist Jonothan Antin wants build a second location to his incredibly popular west Hollywood Salon but this time in Beverly Hills. Normally no one would care, certainly not I, but as I was flipping thru the channels I caught a glipse of Jonothan, equally narcissistic and dull looking at a empty space on Rodeo Dr speak (in a public voice) 'I am going to build here the greatest salon in the history of the world ever!' and I was hooked.  Not since Rocco have I found such a moron compelling TV watching. The upside of Blow Out is that Jonothan seems to have hotter chicks hanging around, placing far too much value on their ability to style hair. It also included a random guest appearance by Kate Bodsworth (of  Blue Crush  fame) who I guess had nothing better going on. Check Bravo for airings, its Bravo so they will probably show the premiere 19 more times.     Summerland  What happens when three recently orphaned kansas farm children move in with four 40ish singles who live in a beach house in San Diego? Absolutely nothing! But it happens in the creepiest way possible!Technically, Aunt Becky stars in this show but really has no credibility as the 'cool' 45 year old aunt from California just starting out in the fashion world. The first episode followed the youngest boy Derrick on his journey to try to kill himself so he could hang out with his parents on his mom's birthday...his suicide plans included sitting under a tree and hanging out by the beach. Derrick's second episode story was about launching a rocket...what the f*ck, right?  There also seems to be a lot of unnecessary touching between adults and kids on the show, when teen Braiden comes home drunk he picks a fight with Surfer 'dude' Jay and the whole thing ends up looking like something off of www.chickfight.com .