Today being Monday was yet another misadventure at Picnic Island. Arrrh, I was quite the quite the salty seadog, or you could say I was worth my salt, or by the end of it, it seemed I had been asSALTed and battered.  Like last week I drank a most befouling of drinks. last week being coke, sherbert, tomato sauce and salt.  This week being water tomato sauce & about 30 sachets of salt. (I'M TALKING SATURATED SOLUTION HERE PEOPLE!) Well, I drank it. it took my mouth about a second to realize what id done and it didn't like it. Well that wasn't too bad, except for probably the worst after taste I've ever had. But, It took another 6 seconds for it to reach my stomach and for my stomach to realize what I'd just fed it, and it said 'FUCK NO! I'm not putting up with this shit, RETURN TO SENDER!'   I was retching for about a half a minute before I vomited in a bin. Chucked up my lunch, chips and the Salt. I feel sorry to those on bin duty today that all I'm going to say. That was cool I haven't puked in ages, and it was a good ?Experience? But for the rest of the after noon everyone avoided me, especially Katie, of course. She was in a very bad mood today and nothing I did could cheer her up. I even got her jellybeans from some guy and jellybeans should perk anyone up but noooooooo!  Oh today Chris, Jamie & that other guy (I found out his actual name is Jim, but its not as cool as 'that other guy') & Marcus were present. Marcus bestowed on me the title of General Lobo. Adding to my other nicknames, Blackjack, Khanage, and Sally..... And Chuckie called me a home less person today, owing to my outlandish attempt to stay warm. I got to start studying.  I've realized that when ever I'm hungry, really hungry. I fillup with self pity and depression. Thus, if I'm ever down, I just have to eat something and I'm Perky! Now that I've made this observation I can combat my negativity with 'Your Hungry, Shut the Hell up,' Aye I know what your saying, 'Typical male, the way to a man's heart again is his stomach.' And I retort, Why shouldn't it be? I think we complicate issues too much anyway,   This leads to the key to my happiness, Good square meals, Someone to talk to, something nice things to look at (nature, or manmade) and a good solid problem that humanity needs solved, to keep me busy. & just because I'm 17 doesn't mean I don't know what I'm talking about.  That would be cool, life like that.  Oh BTW My website is getting rave reviews, so my site actually become popular! But I doubt it.  'No Salt. NOooooooooooooooooooooooooo Salt' --OfficeSpace  P.s Tomoz will be the Camera project. Lets see what happens.