music - It Was Fear of Myself That Made Me Odd by Alexisonfire   wow what a day. the rain never seemed to stop. it's still going now... blah. well any way , i don't know what i said earlier today, i dont even remember posting, but . . . i went to the mall with kate around 12? oh yeah and i got to talk to my friend alli on the phone lol its been awhile.&nbsp; she's awesome.&nbsp; i dont remember, i cant remember anything obviously. we just walked around and whatnot.&nbsp; i saw chris and we ate with him. haha it was funny. then this guy was handing out free soda which r0cked. i shouldn't be drinking soda.... cuz of that damned diet, but it was C2 so i didnt feel  that  bad.&nbsp;&nbsp; (Music - 'Hey It's Your Funeral Mama' by Alexisonfire) , , so afterwards i went home (330ish). i showered and just lounged... played guitar ect. w/e . so around 5 i went to pick up kate again, and we went to dinner. good time. then we went back to her house, exchanged our belated bday gifts, and watched Underworld.&nbsp; she got me a family guy poster, and this crazy Atreyu shirt.   so i left her house just&nbsp;a little while&nbsp;ago. man i was actually scared to drive. first time, i actually would rather drive with my parents.&nbsp;o well. i made it home in about 20 mins when it should have taken 9 mins. o well. better safe then dead.&nbsp; oh yeah if u couldn't tell from the current music,&nbsp; i got the new Alexisonfire cd Watch Out!.&nbsp; (music - Accidents by Alexisonfire). btw for all you out there that don't know, its pronounced Alexis On Fire, not Alex is on Fire , or Al ex iso n fir e. ok got it? of course. its pretty good. classic Alex. i guess i can say classic in relation to the 1st album. tis all. i gotta work tomorrow at 4 or something. o well, its been a nice vacation off from w0rk. but Everything That Has a Beginning Has an End. and this is just one of them. i think i'll ask if i can work in the pharmacy. thatd be nice considering i may end up doing that for the rest of my life after college........... till the morrow.