Reuters is reporting that john kerry says he'll extend the 9/11 commission's charter if he's elected, in urllink kerry calls for extension of 9/11 commission . What will the commission be charged with, now that they have done all their research and given their recommendations? well, they'll be reporting on the progress of the implementation of those recommendations. Are these people the press or babysitters? instead of making them watchdogs, do what russert raised on meet the press this past sunday, which is to get them heading the new consolidated intelligence organization. These are smart people, whose services could dearly be used by the american government. They shouldn't be extended 18 months to push paper and nip at heels that are dragging through the legislature. Speaking of which, kerry is charging that the republicans and bush himself are foot-dragging on implemented the suggestions the commission put forth. Chairman kean is right that time is not on our side -- we've been safe for almost three years now, but we can't expect that to continue. But bush has to show that he's considering the recommendations rather than accepting all of them willy-nilly. Some require some serious consideration as to how to implement them, not whether to implement them, and that's what bush is considering -- the hows. And therein lies the rub -- what some see as inaction or indecision, others view as necessary separation of the executive branch. As well, there are a bunch, especially the key ones with changes in government reporting structure (i.e., the new intelligence clearinghouse) that require congressional approval and new bills being passed into law. I think it's great that the senate immediately understood that their summer vacation had to wait while they moved on as much of this as they can. And unfortunately denny hastert must have really been looking forward to working on his tan, but has since thought better. So, with that said, remind me again why kerry would want to extend the 9/11 commission for 18 more months? oh, yeah, to look different from the president (and not in a way that even shows him as more presidential, in my opinion) and hopefully get the 'anyone but bush' vote. Yeah, that's a great way to attain the presidency. Urllink read more!