First of all, I can't believe that Ray Charles died yesterday.  The music legend was... well... a legend.  I actually hadn't heard any news about him in so long that I forgot he was still alive, but now that his death has been publicized and I've been reminded that he was alive yesterday morning, I'm saddened to find out that he was alive and now is dead.  He will be missed.  I was watching some of State Funeral of Ronald Reagan and I have to say it's really an amazing funeral... and I know... I've been to plenty, unfortunately.  There are 4,000 seats in the Cathedral and they're all filled with family, friends, colleagues and dignitaries from around the world.  The ceremony was really touching.  The family is strong and know that his death was probably for the best since his Alzheimer's was getting so bad that he didn't recognize his wife and his true love anymore.  I was really interested in hearing George Bush's (senior) speech.  I thought it was nice.  It wasn't all politics and businesslike... it was touching.  You could hear it in his choked-up voice that Reagan was special to him.  Afterall, the Gipper gave him his shot by taking him on as Vice-President... and the two of them did have weekly lunches by themselves just to spend time together.  President Bush's Eulogy was nice as well, but I don't think it was as personal as it could have been, in my opinion.  But Bush senior definitely showed emotion, a tear or two, showing us just how much their relationship meant to him.  The somber look on the faces of the thousands of people attending the service and the hundreds of thousands of people at the Belmont Stakes when the announcement of his death came over the loudspeaker was a sobering reminder that a President touches the lives of a lot of people on not only a political level, but a personal level... the lives of more people than he can even imagine.  Rest In Peace Ronald Wilson Reagan and Ray Charles... our thoughts are with the both of you... jam on.  QOTD - 'How come some of the same flights are 3 hours while some are 7 hours?  Is it just because of layovers or are the planes slower' - Randy while trying to book a flight for my boss  Dave/Milhouse,BA