I came across this online. How are the actions of the urllink catholic standard and times any different than the lies and falsehoods spread by the nazi regime before/during wwii?? i particularly enjoy #7. Sick bastards. When i have time this summer, i'll rewrite some of these to suit the right-winged bible thumpers (feel free to help). Ten responses to jewish lackeys by kurt hilmar eitzen argument 1: 'you say that religion is a private matter. But you fight against the jewish religion!' counterargument: 'actually, the jewish religion is nothing other than a doctrine to preserve the jewish race.' (adolf hitler). 'in resisting all government attempts to nationalize them, the jews build a state within the state (count helmuth von moltke). 'to call this state a 'religion' was one of the cleverest tricks ever invented.' (adolf hitler). 'from this first lie that jewry is a religion, not a race, further lies inevitably follow.' (adolf hitler). Argument 2: 'there are decent jews, after all!' — counterargument: 'this little phrase 'after all' proves that they are rare exceptions of no significance to our battle against jewry as a whole. But martin luther saw four hundred years ago that this 'decency,' proven by charitable deeds done in as public a manner as possible, is nothing but a hidden cost of business, to repaid a thousand times by uneducated germans. 'know, dear christian, and have no doubts about it, that next to the devil you have no more bitter, poisonous and determined enemy than a genuine jew. . . If they do something good for you, it is not because they love you, but because they need room to live with us, so they have to do something. But their heart remains as i have said!' argument 3: 'the jew has better prices than the german businessman.' — counterargument: any crook can sell junk. Jewish crooks have driven thousands of german businessmen to bankruptcy with the glittering trash in their department store palaces. When someone does get good products more cheaply from the jews than from germans, it is only because the united jewish firms force down prices from the manufacturers, which means reducing workers' wages. He who has bought good products cheaply from the jew should never forget that the curse of a german worker and the tears of his hungry children come with them! argument 4: 'there are also 'white jews' [i.e., gentiles who are as bad as jews]. — counterargument: 'that speaks against the jews, not for them! the fact that one calls the crooks among us 'white jews' is proof that being a jew implies something bad. Otherwise, one would call crooked jews 'yellow christians.' the fact that there are so many 'white jews' among us proves that the destructive jewish spirit has already infected wide circles of our population. It is a warning to us that we have to take up the battle against the jewish world plague everywhere.' (joseph goebbels). That is why point 24 of our party program states: 'the party battles the jewish-materialistic spirit within and outside of us.' argument 5: 'mr. Levi is not a jew, since he has been baptized!' — counterargument: as we have already shown, jewry is not a religion. The führer pointed that out in a sarcastic manner during the period of struggle [1919-1933] when he said that is was a peculiar sort of religion when one could smell its adherents from a great distance! no, a jew always remains a jew. Chaim herz bückeberg, better known as 'heinrich heine,' joked: 'are these long noses a kind of uniform that allows the god king jehovah to recognize his old body guard, even if they have deserted?' 'i have no desire to convert the jews,' martin luther wrote, 'since that is impossible.' a jew remains a jew. 'in case of need, a dose of baptismal water saves both business and jewry at the same time!' (adolf hitler). Argument 6: 'it is true that mr. Moses freundenstein is a jew, but his parents and grandparents lived here. He is one of our old established citizens.' — counterargument: just as a goat does not become a horse, even if his father and grandfather were in the same stall, a jew can never become a german, even if his ancestor came to germany as a peddler in varus' army [during the roman era]. Argument 7: 'the jew is a human being too!' — counterargument: 'of course the jew is a human being too. None of us has ever doubted it. But a flea is also an animal. But not a very pleasant one. Since a flea is not a pleasant animal, we have no duty to protect and defend it, to take care of it so that it can bite and torment and torture us. Rather, we make it harmless. It is the same with the jews.' {joseph goebbels). Argument 8: 'everything with a human face is equal.' — counterargument: thirteen years ago, the 'stürmer' carried a cartoon. In it, a miserable pig looked up from his sty to a royal lion. 'everything with an animal face is equal!' but what did the lion growl in reply? 'that's what you swine would like to think!' argument 9: 'anti-semitism is only something for idiots!' counterargument: one no longer hears this lie in national socialist germany. But one still reads it in the jewish emigre press abroad, and jews whisper it here and perhaps some jewish lackeys still think that. We smile in response, and note that the jews have never produced a single creative man, but that all great men in every country have been implacable opponents of the jews. Some 'intellectuals' may be distressed when one doubts their understanding, but we will follow the battle cry against judah that all of the great men of our past have made! argument 10: 'can you live with the uproar and accept responsibility for the misery that the laws of the third reich bring to thousands of jewish families?' — counterargument: 'it is almost a miracle that absolutely nothing has happened to jews in germany, rather that only gradually the rights they stole from the germans in politics and culture have been restored.' (alfred rosenberg). But even if a few hundred jewish families in germany really did have to go hungry, what is that against the many millions of german families that the jew murdered over the course of centuries through wars, revolutions, and civil strife, not to mention those ruined through usury and fraud. 'in the battle between the races, there is no truce. If you are determined finally to defend yourself, german people, then be pitiless!' (adolf hitler).