Local time 8.55pm sunday  the train arrived on time this morning in shanghai. We got out of the station about 10am. When we climbed the mountain we took minimal supplies and couldn't shower for 2 days. The first thing we wanted to do was shower and change into some clean clothes, so we checked into the same hotel as before. I think i've never enjoyed a hot shower that much in my life :).  After we'd freshened up, we met our friend ding rong jun who was looking after some of our luggage. We all went out for lunch to a local restaurant about 5 mins walk from the hotel. It was very nice and had some very fresh fish (fresh in that i'd seen it swimming around in a tank about 10 mins before we ate it).  After lunch we walked for 10 minutes to a tea market. It was two narrow streets about 200m long with nothing but tea. I've never seen that much tea before. The teas ranged from everyday types to some costing more than 60 english pounds for 500 grams (more than 880 chinese yuan). We tasted one tea which had a large flower bud. When placed in hot water, the bud opened and leaves unfurled. It looked great and tasted great. Unfortunately, we couldn't buy any; we'd already visited two tea shops and bought enough to last all year.  We then headed back to the hotel feeling tired. Now we were really feeling the effects of climbing the mountain, our legs were stiff and our knees aching. So, we collapsed into a heap in our room and slept for an hour or two.  We met rong jun again for dinner in the hotel and ate a full meal and drank some beer. Although we'd only met rong jun quite briefly, he definitely is a nice guy and i look forward to meeting him again.  So, after dinner it was back onto the train back to yuqi's home city shijiazhuang. The train departed at 8.28pm and will arrive tomorrow morning. We're actually travelling first class this time (no other tickets available). Here we have a more private cabin with 4 beds instead of the usual 6. The beds are softer and there's a sliding door we can close, making it very quiet. I'm off to bed now, so goodnight :)  interesting china fact #8 - getting a train ticket here is not very easy. Unlike the uk, every seat and bed is accounted for. If there's no seat you simply can't travel. They're always very busy, i haven't seen a single empty seat in my time here. The trains are wider and taller than the uk, having 2 seats on one side and 3 on the other. On the sleeper services, they have staff walking up and down the aisles at certain times selling food, drink and renting vcd players.