Ok, this blog needs to be spiced up once again. So what did everyone think of the great and rather humorous documentary? first of all, in the film so often you'll see all the 'weird' cultures, and the people in these communities/sect will be so proud of their culture and heritage and religious practices. To go off on mrs.va's commment that 'we don't see our own milieu when we are living in it', i believe this statement to be mostly true. If a person has never moved to a different state/country, then that person will always see himself as a 'normal' human being, because they are so immersed in their culture in which they were born. But when you move, that's when you will discover your milieu, and when you move to a drastically different place you also can more objectively see the milieu of your new home. That happened to me several times already, first the culture shock when i moved from china to california, and then i then i brought an interesting mix of chinese/california culture when i moved up here to vancouver washington. Here is just a list of the many many milieus of vancouver, if you don't realize already: 1:as erin mentioned: 'all the subarus and suvs!!!!!!'(this is a very interestiing discovery as i moved here, i guess even georgia has much less suvs) 2:ski and snowboarding crazy(go figure with all the outdoor opportunities here) 3:people drive soooooooo painfully slow and very carefully obeying the speed limit(compare to california....you'd be kidding if you sped just 10mph above the speed limit....in california 50 mph 5 lane highway completely jammed with 80mphers) 4:people very much obey the law, the society as a whole is a lot more strict and calmer.(people very rarely question authority here, i can elaborate on that later). 5:the society's pace is soooooooooooo slow(downtown stores close before dark, what???? that's unbelievable in california) 6:i've never heard the word 'spendy' before i moved to washington 7:fast food dominates(somehow people are ok with fastfoods here) 8:all these wetlands and storm drainages(which of course the 'rain milieu' of washington) and there are many many more.............milieus and these subtle differences of cultures are what's so unique about every place, everyone of us......catch a glimpse of new york, san francisco, las vegas, los angeles, atlanta, miami, honolulu, victoria(bc)......wow what a range of different milieus. Too often have i heard people calling each other 'you are not normal', or people urging me to 'just being a normal person'. But i will often ask back, 'what do you mean by normal?'. 'how do you define normal????' because 'a normal' human being is different in each culture/country, and you have to have a firm grasp of the milieus of that culture to be normal. Like people will always see me tapped on with chinese culture, even if i realize it or not. And i will not try to act like everybody else just because i want to look like 'a normal person', because there is no normal person, especially in america. The immigration and custom scene where people from all corners of the world feeling all patriotic and excited to become an american citizen is simply a phenomenal picture patented for america. After all, america is a country founded on uniquenesses and differences and immigrants and we continue to pride ourselves for that. And thus in america, the world 'normal' is moot and there is simply no need for normal! america has always to protrude out from the world as not being normal!!!!!! in the land of the free, uniqueness is happiness; and differences drive our country forward;