I have been trying to avoid this subject for a long time. It's one that really annoys me; indicators at roundabouts. There are three schools of indicating thought: a) signal everything - i'm one of these people. Sometimes i forget, but on the whole i always signal - note that on most roundabouts this means at least one application of my indicators. Quite often it requires two applications of indicators. B) signal sometimes - 'if my hand is near the indicator switch, if i'm not on my mobile, and if i feel like it, i will indicate'. C) 'no! piss off, homosezual law-abiders!' is it just me, or does it piss everyone off when you stop because a single vehicle is entering a roundabout from the road on your right, except they turn off on the road you are on. So there was no need for you to stop. So you stopped, wasted petrol accelerating away again, employed all those pedal and gear movements, and caused the traffic flow to stall, just because someone couldn't be arsed enough to move their hand 4 inches to the indicator (their wrist is strained from excessive wanking perhaps?) this happened to me today in clifton. I gave the offending minicab driver a wide smile and a big thumbs up to show my appreciation, and unfortunately he almost crashed as he looked at me in confusion. I say 'unfortunately' because he didn't actually crash. Damned shame. And just as annoying as 'no indicators' are the ones who indicate wrongly. I suspect some of this comes about due to confusion about the different rules on indicating that we have for normal roundabouts and mini-roundabouts. Plenty of people approach a roundabout, and lets say they want to leave on a road that is at their three o'clock position, so, correctly, they indicate right. Except their good work goes right out the window because they never indicate down (left) to say that they are turning off. They turn left while still indicating right. So once more, you get poor fuckers believing their bogus indications and stopping unneccessarily. Or even worse, you get people who pull out thinking that somebody is turning off and err... They're not. We need some sort of hard line rationalisation here. Either we should indicate or we shouldn't because the current 'yenoyeanooyeanoyes' approach is dangerous.