Remind me, what did I write about before this?    or, a Continuation in the 'Is this a date?' Saga   So, after the weird lunch, my confidence shook, I forgot to tell you guys an important piece of the story. Before Pat shows up to lunch, Dustin starts talking about what a nice guy Pat is and how he's trying to find a girlfriend for him. I'm listening and nodding and realizing that we're talking  more  about finding Dustin's best friend a girl, than discussing whatever it is you discuss with a stranger over pink lemonade.   I excused myself to the bathroom, looked in the mirror and then silently asked myself: Am I being pawned off to the other guy? Is this what happens now? Am I someone's consolation prize?    And being stupid and paranoid and fragile and not too great at censorship, I leave the bathroom and sit down and then say to Dustin,   'Are you trying to pawn me off on Pat?'  'NO! No. no.' Dustin said.  I look down and study my drink and wish there was alcohol in it. Then, Pat ambles in and I'm completely confused.   Fast forward to angst and blog anguish and then to 10:30 p.m. last night.   Phone:   Ring, ring, ring.    Kella:   Hello?    Dustin:   I've been trying to call you, but the phone's been busy.    Kella:   Oh, well, I was talking to a friend (Really friends, Jenna, Jan and Stefani).     Dustin:   You wanna come over to my house? My friends and I are just sitting on my porch.    Kella:   Sure. (pause) OK.     Dustin:   Cool. (address and info given). See you soon.    Phone:   Click.    I'm thinking I'm way too eager, accessible and honest with this guy.  Hard-to-get flashes to my mind like a Memory card that doesn't match the card in my heart and I'm left wondering when you abandon the cat-and-mouse chase or just go with the flow or get more of a life or at least lie about having one.    But, I go over and Dustin is there, and Pat, and two teen-aged girls. (One in college, one freshly graduated from high school. This is weird to me. Weird alarm is ringing. These guys are 23. I'm 25. These girls are firm and quiet and trendy.) I'm clearly the oldest person here. I wear glasses. Bring Woodchuck Pear beer. Know relatively little about  Friends  or  Blink 182  or whatever it is people several years younger talk about. I sit there, drink so-so beer and then panic after everyone leaves and I'm left here, alone, with this strange man. (A place I've chosen to put myself in?)   It's an anticlimatic fear, as we talk in the extiguished-Tiki-torch dark about everything and nothing.  There's silence and the dark and the unknown distance between people who know very little about each other, let alone how to build a bridge or if they even want to get to the other side.   So, he walks me to my car, hugs me and I leave. I return home to Smurf sheets and an open window at 2 a.m. and tell myself to quit trying to figure this out. Some things just are. This might not be, and that's OK.