I first met Dustin at a gay dance club in L.A. I had just broken up with my long time boyfriend of three years, and I was heart broken. He was the first and only guy I have ever been in love with. I had been sitting in my apartment for the last week, slowly empting my liquor cabinet of its contents. Everyone knows that alcohol solves all of your problems.  Around five that night, my good friend Jack came over to tell me that enough was enough, and it was time to get my pathetic ass up and have some fun. I asked him why he couldn’t just let me wallow in my self-pity, didn’t I deserve that much? He said no, not when it meant that my hair looked like a dead, greasy animal that had been glued to the top of my head. “Where have those soft, gorgeous locks gone to, Jasmine?” He asked me. Yes, Jack is gay.  He firmly told me that I had one hour to get myself fabulous looking, and then he would be back to take me out with a bunch of his stunningly gay friends. I was informed that there would be     nothing better for me than going out on the town and discussing what an ass my old boyfriend was with a group of sympathetic gay men. Before I could even protest, he had me in the shower. I was going whether I liked it or not.  Exactly an hour later, he was back. When I came to the door, he told me I looked absolutely stunning, and that if he wasn’t such a homo, he would have sex with me right there. I couldn’t help smiling. He introduced me to the four guys he had brought with him, and they all agreed that I had completely fabulous cheekbones. A lot more guys would get laid if they just acted gay.  Jack hailed two taxis and told the driver to take us to Apache Territory. I asked him what that was. He said it was a gay dance club that he often frequented, and not to worry, he would make sure I had fun. He also informed me that some of the guys had wanted to take me to the Faultline Bar, but he had forbidden it. “You can thank me later,” he said. For all of those who don’t know, the Faultline Bar is basically mobs of gay men in latex rubber and leather, covered in tattoos and body piercings.  At first I felt a little out of place on a dance floor full of fishnet clad men, but they were all just so friendly that I soon found myself enjoying the night immensely. I probably danced with 50 different gorgeous guys before Jack and I went to the bar to take a brake. Too bad they all thoroughly enjoy taking it in the ass.  We both ordered a few shots of gin, and started to discuss this horribly sexy guy that Jack had just been dancing with. Why is it that the only good dancers are either black or gay? Straight, white men have nothing going for them. I bet Jack twenty dollars that he would get laid that night. I went home twenty dollars richer, and Jack went home happy. After a little while, Jack went back out to the dance floor to go pick up his guy, but I stayed at the bar.      I was ordering another shot when a guy, who certainly would have been number one on what Jack liked to call his Men to Fuck and Remember Their Names list, sat down on the stool next to me. Feeling a little buzzed, I asked him why he wasn’t wearing something see-through and glittery. He quickly told me that he was a vagina man, and had only decided to come here, along with his friend, out of curiosity. He said he wanted to expand his horizons, meet a few interesting people. I informed him that I was an interesting person, and started a conversation about the time I had gotten really drunk and ended up having sex with my best friends boyfriend while she was passed out on the couch on the other side of the room, to prove my point. I knew I had him hooked.  We decided to leave and go find a non-gay bar, and I went to find Jack to tell him. I found him standing in a dark corner, getting some serious action from his new friend, and decided not to bother him.  Mr. Fuckable (I still didn’t know his name yet) and I walked a few blocks until we found a bar. He ordered himself and I a round of whisky shots and told me a few good stories about road trips he had taken and a wedding where the bride got really wasted the night before her wedding and ended up puking all over the groom in the middle of the ceremony the next day.  Pretty soon we were making out and getting grotesquely physical in front of the entire bar. “The bathroom.” He whispered to me. I got up and followed him into the men’s room, where we proceeded to have quick and satisfying sex in a blue toilet stall. I know it was seriously nasty. I blame my whoreish behavior on my mother. She did tell me not to except candy from strangers, but she never said anything about having sex with them. It was only after we had finished the deed that I asked him his name, which turned out to be Dustin, the name I had picked out for my future son if I ever decided to have kids. That weirded me out a little.  We walked out of the bathroom together, hand-in-hand, receiving a bunch of curious glances. I was happily enjoying this attention when Dustin screamed, “Holy Shit!” and pulled me down to the ground. Needless to say, I toppled over, in a drunken and confused state. “Jasmine, stay down!” He hissed at me.  “What the hell IS this?” I couldn’t help asking. I mean, come on. I had no idea what was going on.  “Just shut up and slowly follow me.”  I decided it would be best if I just listened to him. We crept along the ground, ducking behind tables and making our way to the door. I saw these two immensely obese girls standing by the bar, and couldn’t help pointing out their obscene extra weight to Dustin. “My God, I know.” He cried. “Just don’t let them see you.” So…we were running from two fat chicks?  We duck behind the last table, and it’s still about six feet to the bar entrance. Dustin tells me to get ready to run when he says. The people sitting at the table next to us loudly ask us what the hell we’re doing. The bar tender looks up when he hears this, and demands to know what we are doing crawling around on the floor. Everyone in the entire bar is now looking at us. “Hey!” Screams one of the girls who probably eats a bucket of Crisco for breakfast each morning. “Suzy, it’s that asshole who stuck us with the tab!”  “Run!” Dustin screamed at me, and he dashed out the door, with me on his heels. We took off down the street, and I cold hear those two beasts lumbering after us. “Jesus Christ! What is this!?” I screamed at Dustin.  He didn’t answer me, and ducked down an alleyway. The two cows were still thundering along behind us, but they were breathing heavy and starting to slow down. One of them screamed at us, “You fucking jackass! We want our fucking money back! We’ll find you!”  That was probably one of the most exciting nights of my life. We eventually lost them by doubling back to where we had come from, and Dustin agreed to explain what had just happened back at his apartment. We got in a cab, and 15 minutes later, we were sitting together on his leather couch.  Apparently, Dustin was at a bar one night, and hadn’t eaten anything for dinner yet, but had found he had blown all his money on drinks. So, he decided to bum it off some un-expecting woman, who turned out to be Humpty Dumpty #1 and #2. He figured two women such as themselves would not turn down a dinner invitation. And while he was at it, he might as well take them out to a really expensive restaurant. It’s not like he would be paying.  So they all arrive at this restaurant, the two chicks feeling like hot shit having picked adorable Dustin. Dustin orders the most expensive thing on the menu, telling the girls to do the same. He gets the finest wine the restaurant has to offer too. The girls are very impressed. Dustin is secretly laughing inside. Throughout the entire dinner, Dustin mumbles rude comments at them, and then when they asked what he had said, he made up something weirdly polite and flattering. Some of my favorites were:  - Do you rub shortening your thighs? What? I said you have sherry colored eyes. - How am I supposed to find your vagina in that sea of fat? Huh? I said I don’t even have to use Viagra to get it up like that. - Your face reminds me of Oscar the Grouch. What was that? You’re so radiant. You shouldn’t slouch. - You’re so obese you waddle. Excuse me? Your beauty is obsolete. You should model.  And so on.  When they finished eating, the two girls went off to the bathroom, telling Dustin to watch their purses for them. Bad idea girls. As soon as they were out of site, he grabbed their purses, removed the cash from their wallets, and simply left, leaving them with the outrageous bill.  I laughed so hard I was in pain. Then we had sex again. We ended up dating on and off for the next year and a half. So clearly, if you want a long, healthy relationship, make sure you fuck on the first date. But this is only wisdom from an alcoholic.