Fat Freddy’s Drop are purveyor’s of a freaky nu Pacific soul train, smothered in bottom heavy funk, jazz, deep dub and skanking roots reggae, they are a 7 piece band hailing from Wellington, Aotearoa (New Zealand). The band grew organically from DJ Fitchie’s improv style DJ sets, starting out with vocals from Joe Dukie and growing as Wellington’s most talented jazz players joined the line up. The jamming process now features; DJ Fitchie on beats; Joe Dukie with that sweet sweet voice; Jetlag Johnson on guitar and Dobie Blaze on keys adding layers of blues and funk. The horn section; Fulla Flash on Sax, Sugar 2 Tone on Trumpet and Hopepa on Trombone – who together bring an old worlde jazz charm to the unique fusion styles of Fat Freddy’s Drop.A by-product of a vibrant live music scene steeped in jazz, dub, reggae and dancefloor orientated electronica, Fat Freddy’s are best known for their extensive late night sets with coatings of jazz, soul and funk, rooted in Aotearoa and delivered with an island attitude!“Definitely one of the best live shows I've seen at One World Live, if not the BEST !” Olivier Tison promoter for BBC Radio 1’s OneWorld live event at Notting Hill Arts Club. Fat Freddy’s made their international debut in August 2002 under the production guise Joe Dukie & Fitchie with the soulful vibes of Midnight Marauders, released by Sonar Kollektiv’s prestigious Best Seven imprint. This was followed in August 2003 by the debut vinyl release as Fat Freddy’s Drop, a limited 10“ single of Hope and Bluey. The 10“ received outstanding support and ended in a number of high profile year end charts, including Gilles Peterson’s Top 20 single of 2003. “Hope was in our Top 20 tunes of 2003, we love them, can’t wait to get them in for a live session at Maida Vale!” Gilles Peterson (BBC Radio 1 WorldWide).Fat Freddy’s are popping into the BBC’s Maida Vale studios in May to record a live session for Gilles Peterson’s WorldWide radio show.Sonar Kollektiv/Best Seven released a 12” in January 2004 featuring a Joe Dukie &amp; Fitchie production called This Room and on the flip a live recording of Ernie taken from a Fat Freddy’s Drop gig at Café Moskau in Berlin.A follow up 10“ vinyl will be released in May featuring remixes of Hope by NYC producers MKL & Soy Sos (Spiritual Life). The new single will be serviced to radio and press from the 19 April and released at the end of the tour on 24 May.During the tour Fat Freddy’s will also release a limited edition live EP of tracks recorded from past gigs in both New Zealand and Europe.    Some recent quotes/responses to Fat Freddy’s Drop:      “Great quality music – love it” Laurent Garnier (Various)       “It’s a mystery to me why they are not already world famous. I’m confident they will be in due course, and meanwhile we are delighted to have them come and play a four-handed game of radio ping pong.” Charlie Gillet (BBC LDN/BBC Worldservice)      “Another superb release... Fat Freddy’s Drop are clearly set to be huge in 2004” Zak Frost (Deepblue/Ministry Radio)       “Top 20 bands to watch for 2004” iDJ Magazine (January 2004).   urlLink  http://www.fatfreddysdrop.com/