Kindness of strangers...  Attempted laundry today with the  kids  in tow and realized how very quickly the simplest things can become a freaking ordeal. i also learned how remarkably sweet  total strangers  can be for no reason other than because they feel like being sweet. Trust me. It wasn't like they were trying to get into my pants or anything. I had kid drool all over me and was wearing my 'wash-day' outfit... Also, I'm not surper sure I'll ever be bathing again so it's not like there was even an olefactory incentive there!  I am doing two things right now. I am composing  an  post and I am also watching The Collected No Doubt Videos. I am doing both of these things sitting at my desk in my room. There are many reasons why this whole situation thrills me to no end but the top five are as follows:  1)  Travelin' Man  lent me this super nifty DVD player as well as bought me this cool DVD featuring the aforementioned videos.  TM  rocks. hard.  2) Whilst my computing area was established via my 'desktop' PC I rarely (read 'never') used it just for the fun of it.  Boo  played on it quite a bit but it wasn't easily hooked up to any sort of  internet access source  so mainly it was all about typing papers and working on stuff I copied onto a disk from work and brought home. Since getting a work laptop the only time the  Pink Monstrosity  was called into play was when  Boo  wanted to make stuff using  KidPix . I've since shipped  PM  off to my mom in NM ( big Brother  just set it up for her. Interestingly enough  he's  the  best kid  now cause he set the thing up. Me? I just  shipped  it! Whatever. It's not like I've only got the  one  mom -- wait... ;-]) Anyway! Long story short, I got a new laptop, wireless DSL and a relatively clean work area on the world's coolest drop leaf desk. My computing life right now is  sweet .  3)  Baby  is asleep. My God, can I  just  say two kids is  exhausting . I'm not going to go there with the 'careful what you ask for' blah, blah, blah because I'm the   luckiest   human being on the planet and this luck is best illustrated by taking a cool appraising glance at the stuff in my life that is  exactly  as I requested it... I'm just tired is all and glad  Sparkle  takes the occassional nap so I can stop chasing her around...  4)  Boo  is better. She was sick yesterday. Throwing up. Miserable on the couch all day. 102.5 fever. I called the advice nurse at Children's who scared the HELL out of me -- 'Sounds like she has a   stomach virus  . Could last up to  48 hours . Vomitting will probably be followed by diarrhea which could last for up to  five  days. Call us back when her temp hits  104 . Other than that just keep her comfortable and hydrated.' WTF??! Anyway, she stopped vomitting mid-day and her temp never went higher than 102. No diarrhea either. She was MUCH better this morning. Ergo, my world=great.  5) La, la, la! I get to see my  Pretend Girlfriend  tomorrow. I haven't seen her in  forever  and I had  just  decided I needed to stop acting silly vis a vis her adorableness when (ta-da!) I went to see my  BBQ  who got me all stirred up again. So, we're pretty much back at square 'stupid' -- ah well. There are no doubt worse people to have crushes on. (In fact... I think I've already cycled through most of them!)  So, there you have it. I'm happy right now. Tired but happy. I also have the best friends ever with the cutest hand-me-downs for my  Sparkle ! I'm telling you, I don't think I could have planned this better if I'd  tried !