Shameless plug...    Recently I added Axel’s website under my Favorite Links. Though the pictures do no justice to his body of work it gives you some idea of what he does. This week, starting tomorrow, he will be in Ann Arbor, Michigan for the 2004 Ann Arbor Art Fairs (July 21-24). He will displaying his work at the  urlLink State Street Area Art Fair . So, if you happen to be there, check it out.     2004 STATE STREET AREA ART FAIR  FAIR HOURS WED-FRI 10AM-9PM - SAT 10AM-6PM     The State Street Area Art Fair is a nationally recognized and award-winning art fair that combines the talents of hundreds of artists with a host of merchant displays along the streets of vibrant sections of Ann Arbor's campus area. With stunning, visual examples of traditional and contemporary art, the State Street Area Art Fair is now in its 37th year. Exhibitors range in categories from painting, ceramics, leather, wood, jewelry, photography and more, and are juried annually to ensure that the highest quality and excellence are displayed each year. A full listing of participants and their work is featured on the website, along with other fair information.   The location of exhibitors is centrally located in the heart of Ann Arbor's downtown area. The booths can be found along N. University, Liberty, Maynard, Thompson and William streets. The art fair is also host to the Ann Arbor Fiber Arts Guild showcased at the intersection of State and N. University. Twenty-three area artists exhibit their work here in a double booth. Along this same intersection can be found an outdoor shoppers bazaar created by all the participating merchants in the area, lots of sales and restaurants expand onto the street.&nbsp; The main information booth is located at State and Liberty. Volunteers from the Ann Arbor Art Center staff it. Pick up a free guide there with artist listings, maps, shuttle guides and schedules of music events. Drop off your name and address if you are interested in exhibiting in next year's fair. Also for sale are commemorative T-shirts, bags, posters, and more at the merchandise tent on State at William. Two other information booths also offer guides and items for sale. A booth is located at Maynard near Jefferson and another at Liberty and Division which is staffed by the Huron High School Rowing Team who also assist in set-up, daily cleaning and take-down for the event.   As always, this year's State Street Area Art Fair is distinguished by it's commitment to high quality and the addition of new and innovative artists. The standards set for acceptance to the show are demanding and the artist's work reflects the dedication to excellence and quality. With a representation from 41 states, the fair offers a variety of appeal to all fair-goers.