Hi, everybody!  It's been forever, it seems, since I've made any contributions in here, but I've had some ESO problems with my computer (ESO=Equipment Superior to Operator).  I see now why Robert called it Netscrape--I thought that was just a typo.  But now I'm on Explorer, and that should be much better.  Large print for us mature types, too!   I tried the other night to share some insights that I had gotten while reviewing some teachings I did @ VBCC, but.....(refer to above).  So, I'll try again.  It may not be as good as the first time around, but we'll see.   I was going through my notes on a teaching I did about a month ago called 'Worship Heals'.  I actually got a lot out of it, through the insights of the others participating in the discussion.  Robert had made a comment that really stuck in my brain, which I'll share with you.  We were talking about 1 Samuel 16:23, where David plays his harp to calm down Saul when the evil spirit came upon him, and the relationship between that verse and the part musical worship plays in the Christian's life, when Robert made the comment that Saul was like an immature Christian, who uses worship music as a sort of crutch, being either unable or unwilling to spend the time to commune with God on his own to upkeep his relationship with God.  He relies more on the worship leader or team to get him 'into the throne room'.  David, however, is like a more mature Christian, who spends lots of time alone with God, producing his own 'worshp experience'.  This goes beyond whether a person is mucisally talented or not; it's an attitude thing.  David took responisibility for his relationship with God and initiated contact, whereas Saul rode on the coattails of others.  Anyway, I don't think Robert actually verbalized all that, but that's what God ministered to me through what he said.  Good stuff, I think!   I have a prayer request for anyone out there reading this who believes that God is our healer, etc.  I just found out that an uncle of mine has cancer and has been hiding it from the rest of the family for about 6 months.  Please pray for him, his kids, his siblings; for healing, for comfort, for understanding, for faith (I'm not sure how dedicated a Christian he and his family are).  I'll keep you all updated as I get more info and I know we'll be hearing good things soon!  I've been praying a long time for salvations to come to that branch of the tree, as well, so the harvest is ripe!