I don't know how many 18-26 year-old Christian men read this blog.  If you are a member of this demographic, now's the time to think about your options when and if the draft resumes.  It could happen.  The U.S. military is stretched to the breaking point, and peace in Iraq seems far, far away.  Plus there's the volatile Korean peninsula and any number of surprises that could come our way in the near future.  Another war or an escalation in the current conflicts might prompt Congress to reinstate the draft.  Senator Chuck Hagel has already wondered aloud about the possibility.  Can those of you Christians eligible for the draft kill in good conscience?  If not, you need to plan today to apply for conscientious objector status.  Presbyterians can find excellent guidance  urlLink here .  Members of other denominations may also want to look at this document.  It contains a list of important references and support agencies at the end.    In order to prove to the draft board that your opposition to the war is at the level of conscience and not expediency, it is helpful to demonstrate that your opposition to war is long-standing.  Talk to your pastor, your family and your friends now.  Commit your views to writing today.  If you're a Presbyterian, you can register with the Stated Clerk of the denomination.  That kind of certification will help immensely.  If you're under the age of 18, you'll have to register for the draft soon.  If you think that the answer to 'WWJD in time of war?'  is 'Not kill,' you too need to get ready.  Simply writing, 'My Lord Jesus Christ forbids me to kill' on your draft registration card can be a helpful form of documentation.  Of course you'll want to make a copy and keep it for your records.  Perhaps your Christian conscience is not troubled by any and all killing for the state, but may be troubled depending on the nature of the conflict.  Selective conscientious objection (objecting to a particular war on its merits rather than objecting to all wars) is an option if you are a Presbyterian, and may be for other denominations.  Again, click on the link above for more information.