This is what my parents didn't want published in my hometown newspaper:   As a gay person growing up in Freeport, I was always ashamed. I kept my secret from everyone -- my parents, my closest friends and even myself. I prayed nightly for God to save me from what I had always been taught was a sin. It wasn't until I moved away to go to college in Austin that I realized I could be myself and live a normal, productive and fulfilling life like everyone else. Being gay, for the first time in my life, didn't matter to anyone.  That's why I was delighted to see your editorial in The Facts, which I read regularly online from my new home in West Hollywood, California. It's very important for the people of Brazoria County to know that gay and lesbian people are an important part of the community. By extending the same rights to these law abiding citizens that everyone else takes for granted, the community will be better served.  Logic and history tells us that the coupling of two loving people to establish a home and family is of great benefit to society. Denying these same rights to gay people -- who already have families and partnerships of equal value to their heterosexual counterparts -- is counterintuitive. Our families and relationships deserve the same protections and responsibilities as any other under the law.  I hope readers of The Facts will not succumb to the fear tactics being espoused by certain religious organizations that claim to speak for God. Gay marriage will not lead to polygamy. It will not lead to people marrying animals. It will not lead to the destruction of civilization as we know it. Just think about it.  As we continue this discussion as a nation -- and as a community -- let's be sure and remember that the debate is not in the abstract and theoretical -- it affects the everyday lives of millions in this country. There are human beings at the heart of this matter. The most patriotic thing we can do is embrace the Constitution in its true spirit and refuse to sit idly by when some in this country, at the expense of your fellow citizens, use it as a tool of discrimination.