I think I am more of a Cancer than a Leo, but someone just brought to my attention that I could be a mixture of both.  (I am still more Cancer)  :-P    Cancer/Leo July 19 to July 23  Cancer is the fourth sign of the Zodiac; Leo is the fifth. Those born on the Cancer/Leo cusp have the vitality and ambition to be successful in their creative endeavors. Creativity is one of their keywords, and their caring nature ensures that the benefits of their imaginative powers help others. Cancer/Leos turn to nurturing the family group and take pride in their warm hospitality. They are emotional and traditional, interested in heredity and ancestors. Cancer/Leos can be prominent on stage and in film, as their natural ability to act and their flamboyance and love of attention make them naturals at fame.   The astrological symbol of Cancer is the Crab; for Leo, it's the Lion.  Cancer/Leos go through life with a strong shell around them that is not easily broken.  However, Cancer/Leos are the  first to express emotion  in any given situation -- the first to laugh and the first to tears. In this way, the Cancerian influence exemplifies the cardinal quality assigned to it. They also have a  strong ability to see their projects through to the end . In this way, Leo exemplifies the fixed quality assigned to it. Cancer/Leos are  good organizers  and tend to be popular, even inspiring.   Cancer is ruled by the Moon, and Leo is ruled by the Sun. In ancient times, the Moon, which represents fertility and instinct, was perceived as the Great Mother, responsible for nurturing all life. The Moon controls the tides and all water on Earth, and it has a strong effect on human emotions. Cancer and Cancer/Leos tend to be more sensitive to the movement of the Moon through the zodiac than are other signs,  their moods changing with the Moon's passage . In ancient times, the Sun was believed to be the center of the Universe, the core of existence, the Father. The Sun generates warmth and keeps life on Earth moving. Leos and Cancer/Leos sometimes feel they are the center of the universe, and sometimes they are! They are gregarious and social, fun-loving and live life with enthusiasm. Generally domestic and peaceful, they have strong emotional drives and won't sit still when loved ones are threatened. The Sun and Moon, mother and father, day and night; Cancer/Leos are all of these things, and finding a way to express the entire continuum is both a challenge and a much-needed emotional release.   The element associated with Cancer is Water. Water Signs are emotional: they tend to respond to the world through emotion. The element associated with Leo is Fire. Fire Signs are physical and tend to respond to the world through action.  Cancer/Leos are very intuitive and jump headfirst into life , without worrying whether their latest goal is realistic or practical. For them, everything about life is Big with a capital B, and if drama and courage is required to meet their goals, they have both in abundance.  Their warm and caring nature is very sensitive to other people's harshness.  Cancer/Leos are cheerful and self-assured, sometimes to the point of living in a fantasy world. They are always happy as long as someone is paying attention to them!   Cancer/Leos have a strong association with food. They are very imaginative and sensitive, making them  excellent amateur chefs . Some go on to make a career out of cooking. Pleasure is important to those born on the Cancer/Leo cusp, and they like to spend money to feel good. Cancer/Leos tend to enjoy physical exercise, finding that sweat helps them counter the stress inherent in their emotional nature. They prefer to play in groups, rather than solo. They are too sociable to enjoy solitary running or weight lifting, and they much prefer team sports or group exercise.   In love relationships, Cancer/Leos top the charts in almost every area, from devotion to romance. The great strength of the Cancer/Leo is in their creativity and generosity with others. Sometimes these qualities combine, resulting in thoughtful gifts or  unique solutions to problems . Cancer/Leos emotional orientation to life help them understand the difficulties their loved ones must work through.    ...for what it's worth.