You know, if it wasn't for all the conveniences of society that I have grown to love, I could be a hermit very easily.  Sharky changed jobs last November - got a bigger, better one. :-) We waited the 3 months until he qualified for insurance, then filled out all the paperwork. Then, they lost it a few times, he had to fight on the phone, yada yada yada, and FINALLY, 2 weeks ago, I got our insurance cards in the mail. So, I immediately made an appointment for Petunia's 12-month well baby - (she turned a year 21 Mar).  Now, when I filled out the paperwork, her doctor was listed in the insurance book AND I even called them to verify that they were a member. When I made the appointment, I again verified that they were a member.  So, Petunia and I got all dressed up this morning to see the doctor. I walked in the doctor's office this morning, signed the sheet, put my insurance card in the waiting box like always, turned aside, then heard 'WAIT!'  I turned around, just to have the receptionist bitch SHOVE my insurance card in my face saying 'We don't carry Humana.'  So, I politely told her that I had verified numerous times that they do.  'Oh NO, we don't take Humana HMO, we only take Humana PPO.'  When I asked what the difference was, she sneered and said, 'We don't take the low end HMO, we only take the PREMIUM PPO.' And she made the word PREMIUM much louder.  I stupidly said again that I didn't understand, and she said 'If you don't understand...' laughed, and said 'NEXT!'  And I was pushed aside by mom with a snotty nosed brat. So, I struggled with my purse and the diaper bag and Petunia, got the insurance card back in my wallet, and when I turned around, there was a waiting room full of parents sniggering at me.  I just walked out.  I just hate people sometimes.  The good news, I fixed out the problem. The lady at Humana apologized for the mix-up (they knew that the doctor wasn't the right type but he ended up on the card anyway) and we were able to find another good pediatrician in the neighbourhood (0.8 miles away) and got Petunia an appointment on the 30th of this month.  I still hate people right now.