Prom is tomorrow.... I hope it is goona be fun.. That is all i ask. Rob gets here may 14th..... Yeah 3 weeks today.... Oh god i think i am giving myself an ulcer thinking about it. But i am so excited to see him, scared to yes, but tres excited. Leafs played last night.... But becuase calgary was playing at the same time and i am out on the west coast.... I had to watch the calgary game, not the leaf game.... Which is alright i guess.. Considering my leafs lost.. And that makes me sad. But philly is a good team.. So... I still have bragging rights.. They made it farther then the damn canucks! today is a crazy day... I have so much to do.... School till 1:40.... Tanning at 2..... Make-up conseltation at 2:30..... Pick up my dress around 3:30.... Then go home and get ready for work to be there for 5:30 - 9:30.... Come home... And not talk to rob cause he will be at work... (11-7am his time).... So i won't be talking to him till saturday evening before i leave to go to prom.... Yeah i think i am getting excited now.. Plus brian is excited.. Which helps... A lot! so yeah.. This post was pretty much about nonesense.. But i have to take my mind of things... Otherwise i will be thinking to much.. And that right now is not something i want to be doing. I really miss jazz.... Rob and i were talking about her.. And all the fun times her and i have had throught the years.. And i miss that... (sticks in bum.... Farting boys on rocks.... The welfair... Where i was a total bitch.... All our inside jokes and sayings... Not one funny, but two funny... Tequilla.. Puking in her bathroom... Poor man's pudding...) i can't wait to go home and just hang out with her again.... (yeah jazz... We is going to the bar.... So get your party shoes out of the closet and dust them off!) ok... Well i am not done enough work for today.. So i guess i will do some now.... ** hey martha.... You are so cool..... When i get back.. We will go and do 'girl stuff' hahaha and talk about 'girl things'** (yeah i said that cause rob instantly wonders what the hell i mean.. Hahahahaha!) maybe rob can kiddnapp kaylee and bring her here too... See i should just go... I am still thinking! ~loves~ p.s. This song rocks! just another day in paradise the kids screaming, phone ringing dog barking at the mailman bringing that stack of bills - overdue good morning baby, how are you? got a half hour, quick shower take a drink of milk but the milk's gone sour my funny face makes you laugh twist the top on and i put it back there goes the washing machine baby, don't kick it. I promise i'll fix it long about a million other things well, it's ok. It's so nice it's just another day in paradise well, there's no place that i'd rather be well, it's two hearts and one dream i wouldn't trade it for anything and i ask the lord every night for just another day in paradise friday, you're late guess we'll never make our dinner date at the restaurant you start to cry baby, we'll just improvise well, plan b looks like dominoes' pizza in the candle light then we'll tippy toe to our room make a little love that's overdue but somebody had a bad dream mama and daddy can meand my teddy come in to sleep in between? yeah it's ok. It's so nice. It's just another day in paradise. Well, there's no place that i'd rather be well, it's two hearts and one dream i wouldn't trade it for anything and i ask the lord every night for just another day in paradise well, it's ok. It's so nice. It's just another day in paradise. Well, there's no place that i'd rather be two hearts and one dream i wouldn't trade it for anything and i ask the lord every night for just another day in paradise for just another day in paradise well, it's the kids screaming. The phone ringing just another day well, it's friday. You're late oh yeah, it's just another day in paradise - urllink nat-a-lee giggled about a boy at 10:08 am var w108274010646253293=escape(''); urllink girly giggles [ .] stand up, stretch, go pee and remember that i love you!