Howdy!  First and foremost Brian and I survived our road trip. We had a lot of fun and had absolutely no problems...Praise God!!  We left Sunday at about 10:30 a.m. and drove straight through until Monday at about 1:00 p.m. At that point neither one of us could go any further. We had made it to Gallup, New Mexico which is just on the border of Arizona. We took a nap, then got some dinner and then went back to bed for the night...needless to say, we were tired.  So on Tuesday morning we left at about 8:30 a.m. and arrived in sunny Anaheim, CA at about 6 p.m.    'News worthy road trip note'- when we entered Arizona, we were about 45 minutes north of Show Low where the 350,000+ acre fire is burning and they've evacuated the town. Anyway, the highway and desert around our road looked foggy, but it turns out it was smoke from the fire. It smelled awful and was really errie to drive through. It didn't clear up until we were passing through Flagstaff which is about half way through the state. Anyway, we were listening to talk radio (of course) and as we were driving, President Bush was flying over heading to Show Low to check it out and meet with fire fighters and victims.  It was so crazy for us to be in the heart of an area of national news.  Our hearts hurt for the people of Show Low and we prayed for a miracle to stop the blaze. It's only mere miles from the town and unless something changes it may wipe out the entire town and take everyone's homes.  We ARE so blessed, and take so much for granted!  Sidenote: We had a blast at Chad and Jenny's wedding, it was wonderful. The boys at Chad's wedding must have partied too much the night before because Brian was tired and out of it all Sunday. The evening was striaght out of a fairytale, complete with princess Jenny!   Also, it was the first time I had ever seen Brian in a tux...wow!...look out!  Current Update: So, last night was the Highschool kick off for youth group which went well and tomorrow we leave for Catalina Island for a highschool camping retreat. Next week we're celebrating the fourth at an Anaheim Angels baseball game.  I'll close for now and update more next week. Thanks for your prayers as we try to find some housing next week and also a job for me. The search continues.  talk to you later. How about this pledge of allegiance thing, huh?