It was a dark early awakening at around 5:00am so we could make it down to the train in time for a 6:00am to Perth. We made it in plenty of time but man was it cold. When we got into Perth it took a bit of wandering to find our pick up point and not too much later we were greated by a huge, green tour bus which looked about ready to fall apart:) but we were soon on our way. Our first stop was The Dawesville Cut which is a man made canal sort of thing into a huge habour, the coffee at the cafe was good, the harbour I could leave. Unfortunatly the  urlLink   Busselton Jetty was damaged in a recent storm so we couldn't go down to the underwater aquarium at the end but we did get to admire the huge jetty. Instead we went to  urlLink   Ngili caves which were truely astounding and rather lucky as we wanted to go see them anyways. It was so humid in the caves we were both passing out after only a few steps, very beautiful formations though. We also had a quick stop at a Margaret River winery to pick up a bottle of wine before we arrived at our accomodation for the night. We ended up staying in a really cool little hut with a log fire and bunk beds, we even got to have a barbaque which I myself cooked:)  Day two started off with the shock of a freezing cold wake up but was softened some what be being able to play with the local  urlLink   Kangeroos which was great. After breakfast we were off to  urlLink   The Bicentenial Tree which is a 75m tree with a ladder built on the sides. These trees are used for fire lookouts although this one was purley a tourist attraction. I managed to get to 25m before freaking out but Marion made it to the full 75m, crazy or brave, you decide. Later we arrived at the Valley Of The Giants for a  urlLink   tree top walk, personally I was feeling a little jittery about hights by this time so I was very proud to walk round the whole route. The trees were Tingles (nice word) which are amazing trees. Some had the centres burnt out and were so big you could drive a car through them:s Off again to some granite formations known as Elephant Rocks which do look a bit like three elephant bums walking out to see, very nice. Later we saw the  urlLink   Natural Gap which is a huge gap (suprisingly) in a cliff face where the sea crashes in to create very spectacular sea spray, here we also saw a natural rock bridge much like the one on the Great Ocean Road but this one was still standing. Last stop was for the blow holes at Albany which are really quite scary when they get going. They're basically holes in the rock that as the water comes in air is forced out at quite a pace. These particular blow holes were also located pretty close to a cliff face which felt a little hairy. This is where is all went a tab Pete Tong. We got back to the bus to find out that someone had gotten in through the window and pinched out bags, theiven' buggers! Luckily I'd kept my camera, IPod etc. with me so it was only clothes and washing gear really. After a stop off at the local cop shop, who were very nice. We went for a couple of pints and bed.   urlLink   The next day mostly involved a climb up a huge hill to see yet more dizzying heights:s Hmmmmm, yes. There was a very cool balancing rock up there though which we couldn't help but try to knock over, alas to no avail.  urlLink   As usual me misses had to go right up to the top and right up to the edge, I chose the relative saftey amongst some rocks:) Then it was back in the bus for the long drive back to Perth, then a train home, lovely:)