I got into a small discussion about double standards the other day. This is a topic i've thought about a lot. It's everywhere, at work, at school, really everywhere. I guess what stemmed this recent conversation was school. The college i went to appeared to write the book on double standards. Some of the ones i can remember are: females had to sign into the dorms after a certain time. This was for protection, or so they say. But we all thought it was to keep an eye on what time people were coming in at night. Honestly, all they had to do was check id's to make sure that the person entering the building was indeed a student, & since no males were allowed in the buildings, a rapist or someone like that would have had a hard time walking down the hall & not being notice. Though never confirmed, we all imagined what would happen if parents call in asking about their daughters grades & the dean of women pulling out the sign in sheets saying, well your daughter seemed to stay out late, she usually signed in after 12 x times a month. (the funny thing is, & this happened to my friend, she signed in a lot of times, but that was because she was in the library till it closed, which happened to be the same time signing in started.) guys were not required to sign in at all. This leads to my second gripe. Freshman had a curfew first semester. All freshman were required to be back in the dorms by a certain time, which happen to be the time females were required to sign in. If as a freshman you violated curfew a certain number of times, you got to visit with the dean. Problem was, guys could enter in any door & women (all doors leading outside were locked except for the main entrance) had to enter in the main door & sign in. So any guys violating curfew would never get caught, but females well, there was really no way around it. Totally unfair in my book. Intervis is a specific time set aside where members of the opposite sex can visit friends in their dorms. This wasn't the biggest double standard that my college had. Basically for men, if you could find a sign in sheet, hooray, but if you couldn't, no big deal. For men visiting female dorms there was a set procedure. The female must sign in the male guest & escort him to her room. If for they wanted to change rooms, she had to escort him back down to the mail lobby sign him out & a person from the new room had to sign him into her room & escort him up to her room. What a pain it was. And because of this policy, there were no hall 'parties' in the female dorms, because no males could linger in the halls. We are here to protect our females. The men can protect themselves.' that's what we were told, of course we were also told that if a girl gets raped in a girls dorm, the school would be liable. But if she were to get raped in a guys dorm, well, she was 'asking' for it, why else was she up there. I'll stop right there before this ends up being longer than it is. I'll only say, i'm sick of people saying that 'she deserved it!' women were not allowed to have housing groups (greek group without the 'rush' aspect) & they wouldn't section off halls for the sororities. Whereas men were allowed housing groups & the administration set aside halls for the housing groups & fraternities. No real explanation was given as to why this was, & females are left praying they won't get stuck on a sorority hall. I don't know, maybe i'm making a mountain out of a mole hill, but these (and i'm sure there are more, like the whole fire alarm thing, i just remembered) really got to me. And the college stated they wouldn't discriminate based on sex. I find this a perfect example of a double standards.