What a hectic 24 hours this Baby has had. Last night The Boy and I went to my cousin and his wife's 30th birthday. We were super late, but quickly got into the swing of things, by grabbing a few drops of white wine (me) and bourbon &amp; coke (him). The crowd was a mix of friends and family - the younger generations of cousins. It was cool to catch up and chit chat. The bash was at a cute little bar, called the  urlLink Tank Stream Bar . They had hired it out, so we had the whole place to ourselves. Afterwards we rocked on at the  urlLink Establishment , where I then switched the wine for some bubbly. This is where the damage was done.  . Some people I had not seen since the big family holiday in Sri Lanka in December, and some new people that friends of friends or cousins friends of friends had brought along. I consumed way too much alcohol in the given time and dearly paid for it when I arrived home and all day today.  Of course by not being very responsible or planning ahead I had to wake up today to go to a brunch for D's birthday. Even though I brought the idea of a bday brunch up with M - I began to silently dread the whole event when I heard it wasn't going to be an intimate get together of 4 - 5 people who's company I actually enjoy, but the whole brood of girls with whom I went to high school with. The dread is due to the complex issues of people moving on and others remaining in the same place, state of mind since highschool - the only difference now is is that they think they are sophisticated enough to be where they are. *rroooow with claws*. I know I know, this is bitchy and I should get over it. I am over it - but I am usually right with the vibes I feel. The whole process today was painful - it was all about who was married, who is fucking who, who isn't fucking at all, who is pregnant, who is unemployed etc etc. I think the thing which REALLY grates me is that the whole group dynamic changes because of 2 certain people. Minus these two the events is usually enjoyable and lovely. The others are so cool - and are girls who I adore. ARGH! I was so glad to leave the bathroom to deal with my hangover.   The whole experience left me wondering if I was ever like that. The Gossip SophistiKat Wannabe I am a Princess Look At Me Wiggle My Arse Female. The answer very simply is No. S pointed this out the drive home. If she or I were ever like that we would still be like 'them' and not us. I think I also left baffled at the level of adult conversation. If the conversation was not on village gossip, it was about who had the biggest enegagement ring, or who was buying which house (this usually ties in wih suburb snobbery). We had one conversation which closely resembled an adult conversation - someone brought up the Da Vinci Code and the issues surrounding it - such as does the book make you question Christianity, is it a good thing or a bad thing? A few us understood that to truly understand faith and religion it needs to be looked at separately. Faith is something personal. Religion is something constructed by those in power at given time. History is part of religion and often history is written by men and more so by the winners/conquerors/powerful and or wealthy. What ensued was a confused and poorly thought out 'argument' by 'them'. All they knew was that 'Whatever we were taught in religion studies was right. The church is the house of God. We should not question religion ever' etc. The point was that it is ok to question the historical accuracy of what we read, hear and see. It should never get to the point of what you find to be spiritual. Christianity has confused the two meanings to say you can't have one without the other. Anyway, I shouldn't criticise being the good Catholic that I am (insert sarcasm here), and I consider myself to be a good person. I cannot however understnad, its not like they are simple minded hobos. These girls have had every opportunity given to them, but they make the choice to play   urlLink  plastic    and not ever develop their own brain, opinions, thoughts, ideas, concepts - nusink! Their primary concern is getting married, and to a rich guy, shopping, having children and eeerr that's it. It was tragic to watch. I should transcribe it for a scene in any future books I write. I knew it was time to leave and go throw up again.  *Enough of bitch rant*   I had great memories of last night. Of me being affectionate with those I love and who's company I cherish. I met some new people who I would love to party with in the future. One wanted to take me home. Mind you he was batting for the other side, so I am not quite sure for what purpose he had in mind. But it was fun. The Boy said my cousin had come up to him to make sure he knew that my new found friend was gay, and that I'm only a drunk flirt. He.  Lessons of the day: There is nothing quite like cleaning up the vomit from your room floor when you are hung over (TRAGIC I KNOW - I was in a bad place at 4:30am!) and strawberries coming back out of your mouth BECAUSE you are hung over do not have the offensive vomit smell.   They   smell   like   strawbs  .    LovePeaceRespectHumility