Saw two good movies over the weekend, 'The Village' and 'The Manchurian Candidate'.  Both are suspense thrillers with political over/undertones.  With the Village you can draw analogies to the war on terror and politicians using fear to maintain control, etc.  But the Candidate, you really don't have to draw any analogies as the message is clear:  Our system is corrupt.    Democrat/Republican--its just different shades of gray.  Is it any wonder that the only issues that seem to divide Republicans and Democrats are the social issues--gay rights, abortion, etc.?  Those issues really have no impact on how the world is run yet those issues divide the electorate.  I'm beginning to think those issues are a ruse designed to keep us from paying attention to what is really going on.  What is going on you ask?  Not sure.  But I do know that for 150 years we've had the same two political parties.  Why is that?  Well, didn't the 1860s mark the beginning of the Boss Tweed era and Taminy Hall.  We had the intro of the political machine that controlled the parties.  Those machines are still at work.   Look at our candidates, Kerry and Bush.  One is a rich, Ivy League Grad and the other is a rich Ivy League Grad.  One has declared a war on terror, the other will continue the war on terror.  One launched a war with Iraq, the other supported the former's decision to go to Iraq.  See where I'm going here?   Anytime over the past several years that there has been a candidate who would truly shake things up, they've failed.  Dean, Perot, RFK, William Jennings Bryan, even Nader.  Some of these men have come from one of the two major parties while the others were third party candidates.  Some of these shakers were killed, i.e. RFK.  The others befell to some strange circumstances.  Remember 1992.  Perot mysteriously dropped out of the race right before the election but then dropped back in.  By the time he came back in it was too late.  Look at Dean.  Had the momentum, had the Dems motivated, then out of nowhere, Kerry takes Iowa, Dean implodes and we're off to the races.   What do we know about 3 party candidates?  They don't win.  We've been conditioned to know they won't win so we don't vote for them.  But guess what, if we voted for them, they'd win.  That's the secret.  Vote for them, and they'd win.    Unfortunately we're looked in this groupthink where we can only select a or b.  There is no viable choice c.  So in the end, why vote?  What does it matter?