Ughhhh here i sit , wishing it would warm the hell up!!! It takes so long for this building to get warm it seems. kinda wonder if it isn better to just leave the shit on! good god. what can ya do. been trying to clean files off this computer, and pics. the recent break in has me paniced about my pics being on here , like if someone stole it ya know, and searched through it. lol . i am sure after they got through barfing they would send them to that one web site , nasty. com or some shit like that.  --shurgs-- what can ya do .  When blogger was down,  i wrote a few posts and just saved them on note pad. figured might as well post them as i find them. then delete them. most of it is arguements with whats his face. and reading them, really makes me realize how pathetic i was. how could anyone care about someone who says the kinda things that he said to me over and over and about me. but i did.   but he finally gave me closure.... his last mean act did it for me. just kinda bumms me out though, that i didnt see it coming, and took the situation for what itwas worth, instead of just being stupid and lettin him walk over me yet once again. I should had jumped up and told him just exactly what I tHOUGHT and felt. but no, once again, i played stupid and once again, got what i always get, because i always do , what i always do. dont you wish , just for once,  you could find the courage, and make the one you want, see you !! and want you. lol, but then again, what would life be if it was happy. glad that is something i will never find out.  One file , room log i found , that i dont remeber reading, and was just shifting through it. after reading it, i was at a loss , wasnt sure how to read what was written. and surely can not understand how someone even at such a young age could ever trash someone for wanting to end their life. guess its not meant for me to understand.  Well here is the entery..... January 15,2004 : I picture my sister singing into the hair brush : Music has always been a huge part of my life  : Here's a little known factoid about BB : I was in an orphanage for a while as a small child  I went to live with some people near Irish Hills MI : they had 4 daughters : they would all get together and watch Dark Shadows it was on around 3 pm I'm thinking But they were very mean towards me : One day While they were all in the house watching Dark Shadows : I tied the extra clothes line rope from the clothes line around my neck and jumped off a picnic table : They looked outside and saw me hanging there : and rescued me : I was 6  : Wow..... : Sorry  That came from a far away place