The dog pictured above is  Champion Coedwig's Carbon Blue . I have high hopes that he will be the father of FutureDog.  A year and a half ago, when I decided I might want a Cardigan Welsh Corgi, I also decided to paint a 'Blue Dog' type painting of Grendel (R ed Dog ). I did a Google image search to find a template to work off of and ran across   urlLink  Starbuck   . He was sitting outside the Blue Dog Studio in Carmel, CA, handsome as you please. I was in love. He was the most beautiful dog I'd ever seen, and I had to have a blue dog of my own. When I started looking for breeders I found mention of Starbuck on the   urlLink  Coedwig    website, and learned that Carbon was his dad. Since then I've hoped to end up with a Carbon kid, but didn't have much ambition about it actually happening. ( As if it couldn't be a conscious decision!  )  So I got on a couple of lists. And then I waited. And waited. And waited. A year passed, and I said to myself, 'Wow, this waiting around really sucks. I want my damn dog.' People wait for puppies all the time, but even after a harrowing twelve months there was no end in sight. So I decided to get proactive. I contacted Kathleen Mallery of   urlLink  Castell Pembroke Welsh Corgis   , who also has a couple of Cardigans and whom I'd met at the Boise Dog Show the year before, and told her I wanted to get the show on the road, so to speak. She recommended a few people in the Northwest (my previous options were both over a thousand miles away), and I found that Carolyn Cannon of   urlLink  C-Myste    had a bitch, Phoebe, that was recently pregnant. Her friend, Louise Sargent of   urlLink  Wolfrun    , was also expecting a litter from the same stud dog with her girl Brandy. And who do you think that dog-daddy was?  Things seem to be coming up roses for FutureDog. His dad may be one of the top Cardigans in the country.  Another breeder in Oregon, who I met at the Coeur d'Alene show in July, recently contacted me to offer me a blue girl from her current litter, who is five weeks old. If I were so inclined, I could have FutureDog five weeks from now. Tempting as that is, I think I'd regret not waiting for my dream dog. Fate has smiled on me, and it might really piss it off if I turned down its generous offer.  Two more months shouldn't be unendurable. Right?