As we were kids, we throw tantrums and make our parents give in to our demands. Yes, they would eventually give in to us but they are biologically linked to us. But the world, that is in front of us - not linked in any way to us. Do you think they'll submit to us? Especially emotionally - yes the grey area. We grow older and become more emotionally in tuned to the surroundings or we need to become more intellectually challenged. My friend who is currently following Sex And the City from Season 1 til to the end says that this show brings hope to people, fake hope. I retorted to him and said it's not true. The show kinds of bring us to think and show the various situation/consequences we may bump in our lives. You probably think I'm contradictory now as I said from my last blog that movies are bullshit and why right now Sex And the City is the 'Dalai Lama' for humans. Well, maybe I could relate to myself to the ladies some way or another to the characters (though I'm in Singapore and without the female anatomy hehe).  I think I'm back to my old self. I'm glad. I know it's only been 5 days since I was back but trust me. It was hard. I fell hard with Eric. I was even thinking (naively) that he may like me and avoiding me like a plague?! (I mean come on, you may never know too right). I think different guys react differently when they found their equivalent match. I think what we had was all too fast - in terms of connecting with one another. Of course, it doesn't help when he was there and I'm here. I woke up and the 'coffee' has awoken me. The caffine this round will be strong enough to keep me UP this time.  Maybe you think I'm crazy to take Song lyrics to relate to me but it's easier. When I was in Bangkok with Eric, He Sang the Chorus of TaTa Young (he said this Song represented me) ' Naughty Naughty Naughty, Sexy Sexy Sexy, Bitchy Bitchy Bitchy, B..(Brendan)' I found that really funny and just got charmed (yupe even more haha).  As we were hanging out and cuddling in the bed. Just being togther. Then the Song that was playing in my head later on was TaTa Young's - I Believe ' I feel the heat around me..I feel the beat surrounds me..Could this be real, I wonder...No need for hesitation...It's time for celebration...Will this be the night I've waited for...'  After I got back from Bangkok with a reality check. Now TaTa Young's - Cinderella plays in my head ' I don't wanna be like Cinderella...Sittin' in a dark old dusty cellar...Waiting for somebody, to come and set me free...I don't wanna be like Snow White waiting...For a handsome prince to come and save me....On a horse of white, unless we're riding side by side...Don't want to depend on no-one else.....I'd rather rescue myself...'  Nuts to have teenybooper songs to keep me alive. But it's working hahaha Well, this is to keep me sane ok. There is never a fix time limit to get over somebody. But I think I'm over Eric. I don't want to be hurt anymore, deep in sorrows. He was happy memories for me. I have to let this go. My heart will be hard as stone by my next trip to Bangkok soon. I don't need all this now. My friends have been so supportive and thanks (you know who you ARE) :)  Okie, time to end. Close box. Stop playing TaTa Young in background :P I'm back! Samantha (but younger, sexier, more naughty and more bitchy)