I once swam in the sea of darkness, no one cared, no one knew. no one saw. I was drowning yet no one cared... Until you came... you rescued me when I was dying. You came to my rescue when no one else would. Thank you... I owe you my life for your heroism, I am in debt to you for your reaching out, I felt love for the first time because you cared. I wanted to ask you if we could swim together, overcome this sea of darkness, turn it to light. You refused... You told me you had to leave... You showed me that you didn't even care, I felt like you pushed me back into the sea, even though, in reality, I was overcome, the darkness taking over me. Swallowing me. Drowning me. I was unable to breathe. I tried to fight it but it came to no avail, I swam as hard as I could yet I couldn't. It was always pulling me, throwing me off. I then started wondering why you even bothered... Rescuing me even though you ended up drowning me. Why did you bother to save me in the first place when your goal was to kill me anyway? I was already drowning anyway... All you had to do was wait for awhile. I realized something... You wanted to scar me, didn't you? Deepen my mortal wound... Nearly to the brink of death. Damn you, how could you be so cruel? I thought you were my angel yet you truly proved I was wrong. I felt so deceived... I cried for a long time, and then I laughed... I laughed.  How stupid I was...To think that you were my friend yet you never were. How could I have been so dumb as to have fallen for that. Stupid... Moronic... Pathetic... As I knew this, I felt that I wasn't engulfed by the darkness anymore... It was always at my side, showing me the truth behind the deceit and lies.  It never bended anything at all... I was only deceived by those who I thought cared for me... Liars... Deceivers... Falsifiers... You called yourself the light, you are only propagandists! Damn you all... Deceiving everyone, hurting everyone, lying to everyone... How cruel your treatments were. Cruel. Just so cruel. I relinquish my faith about everything. From now on, I seek my own truths... My own beliefs... NOT to be overcome by your deceit and lies. I choose to be forsaken from faith and all its ideologies. No more. -- -- -- It is too late for me to return anywhere, I renounce everything even my own beliefs, all because of how deceitful they are. Damn them. I don't know even what's right anymore... All I know is... That I'm overcome.