M E X I C O:5  We drive on some more bumpy roads.  More people wave and I wave back.  Everyone seems to wave down here.  We drive and we drive.  I have to stand up in the RV because there's no room for me to sit.  I almost fall down sometimes because our driver makes fast stops and has a lead foot.  We get into a neighborhood.  We drive past a poster of Mary.  It's catholic I think.  We get out soon after that.  The church is in service.  I can hear singing and I like it a lot.  I peek inside the church and they all look at me.  That makes me a little embarassed so I hide around the corner. Church gets out soon enough and we go inside and set up our puppet stage.  The kids start to come.  They're all dark of course.  I am suprised because I thought they would all be skinny and starving, but some are fat.  None look like they are starving. I sit down behind a little boy with what looks like a boy scout shirt on.  He looks at me and I smile at him.  He tries to look outside but I block his view.  We make a game out of it.  I laugh because he plays along.  We start.  Maureen, our leader starts talking in Spanish and introduces us to the kids.  We sing and the kids love that.  They sing loud and proudly.  They smile and that makes me smile.  I can tell this is going to be a great week. The puppets start.  The kids love the puppets.  They make all of them laugh.  I laugh because they laugh even though I don't know what the puppets are saying.  It's time for our drama.  I dread that because I barely know my spanish.  I can't pronounce my 'a's.  I get up in front of the kids and I get nervous and sweaty.  I barely know what I'm saying.  We have barely practiced these dramas and I can't pronounce my 'a's.  I struggle through my script.  Nate corrects me and that makes me angry.  I don't like people to correct me.  I especially don't like him correcting me because he makes me feel stupid.  We finish and I sit down in relief. We work on crafts and other things with the kids.  They also have to recite a memory verse.  An older boy just wants the candy even though he knows the verse.  He says it and I give him candy, but he wants more.  He jokes around with me.  He has an attitude, but I think it's funny.  He acts tough and we joke about fighting. It's time to go play outside.  It's hot out.  No suprise.  I play frisbee with a little boy.  Some kids ask for Papoochis which our piggy back rides.  I can't resist their little faces even when i'm tired and hot and i've already given so many papoochis.  I'm already in love with all of them because they don't care about Nintendo or Playstation or computers or anything like that.  They just want a papoochi. We ask them questions that are on a sheet.  I don't like doing that.  Because the kids don't understand me and I don't understand them so we skip the questions.  They talk to eachother.  I try to talk to them.  Even though I know only un poco espanol. Maureen tells the kids goodbye and that we'll be there tomorrow.  We get on the RV and some people are already making sandwhiches.  We're all exhausted and hungry so we eat a lot.  There's ham and cheese.  There's also peanut butter and jelly.  I don't care what we get.  I like both of these sandwhiches and I am happy because I know I don't need anything else.  We drive to the other church.