grabe may isa pa tayong member sa egroups natin! Heeheehee!  I was thinking, though kawawa naman siya kasi di naman tayo nagpopost masyado dun sa egroups.  Nilalangaw tayo dun eh. But then again, thats an advantage for that member since we seldom send weird forwards and yucky shit, therefore, less chance of us spamming his/her email.  Naks naman, Allan.  Was truly touched by your pledge of love in the last post. Weirdo ng spiel mo dun about the cdI thought you were talking about real people! (Oh, wow, didnt I just spoil the genius of the joke right there) whatever. Basta na-touch ako dun. Pagbubutihin ko na tuloy yung pagkanta ko kasi dati hindi hehehe  I hate the war. War is bad. I dont even want to think about it because I get depressed (which isnt good for me, either, because I dont produce songs from the depression).  I just noticed that so many countries have huge mass demonstrations while ours just has a teeny tiny one.  Doesnt anyone care here anymore? I guess theyre too busy worrying about more pressing problems like where to get food. Never mind. Just being sad.  Moonstar 88 had something at Claret yesterday and Allan invited me to check it out.  I thought the event was some kind of fairI wore my weirdly cut pants, tribus, a big floppy shirt, and a body bag.  I knew something was wrong when I saw one boy wearing a leather jacket and white slacks outside it was a dance/sit-down dinner.  Oh well, they looked at me, I looked at them, yadayada at least i got to people watch.  Some of the guys there looked like they came out of Buzz Nite.  As I was watching the couples slow dancing, I remembered when I was a sophomore at high school, when holding a boy that close was a big deal.  I think Allan was just thankful that all the boys dancing were holding girls in their arms.  Sir Charles, Sir John Paul, and their friend/bandmate (I think his name is Eric?) caught up with us there, and inspite of their urge to groove to that dance tune Happy, we moved on to a birthday party somewhere in Project 6.  There was food and a lot of drink and I felt so bad (now so sad) that I couldnt partake.  My doctor said I have a liver problem and I have to stay away from salty stuff. Sigh.  Gusto ko yung boses ni Francis. I can imagine him singing Indian Summer.  Sana dumating na sila sa next Buzz Nite. Oy Allan, tuloy mo kuwento mo sa taxi. And give me the next two weeks to finish my thesis then I can post regularly.  Ralphyboy, ano na sa website?