Opal Strong Heel #1 is finished    If you look closely you can see the start of #2, which is going to be a fraternal twin, I like socks that are close, but they don't have to match.  Quirky, like me.   IThe heel didn't add as much length as it looked like to me the other day.  When I actually put it on, it fit just fine.  I really like the way the strong heel keeps the patterning going down the foot, I have another pair planned in a blue 'fair isle' Socka yarn, when I get #2 done.   DNA Scarf  While waiting for my sweater kit from  urlLink White Lies Designs  (which is the next 'big' thing I want to start), I've been working on _ Dr. Montville's Double Helix Seaman Scarf_ for my boyfriend, Dave.  This is a 'free' pattern which can be found  urlLink here .    He wanted a scarf he could wear under his jacket to keep his neck and chin warm on his motorcycle.  I had made him a basketweave design scarf, out of something acrylic, it was the first thing I made when I picked up the needles again after my 15 year hiatus.  It turned out too bulky and too short, he wears it anyway, but I wanted to make him another one that worked exactly the way he wanted.    The picture of the closeup pattern is very washed out, I don't know why my camera does that, and I'm not camera savvy enough to fix it.  The photo on the left is a better color representation of the dark navy blue, but it's just a blob as far as the patterning goes.  I've reached the halfway point of the neck ribbing.       I did add several repeats to the cable pattern portion.  Dave asked for a scarf between six and seven feet, so he can make several wraps around his neck and face.  The yarn is Le Fibre Nobili Tajmajal, which I got from  urlLink Elann .  It's a 70% Merino, 22% Silk, and 8% Cashmere blend, and it is soft and light.  The cables show up very nicely, which is a relief, since I tried to use the same yarn in a different color for  urlLink  Faina's Scarf   and it didn't do so well with the lace patterning.  I may make myself a DNA scarf, or a  different cable pattern to use up the three balls of red I bought for me.