I would like everyone to think before they act. Actually.. I'd like each and every single person in the world to think before they get out of bed in the morning, and make a commitment to keep thinking all day, and if they're not prepared to, I'd like very much that they'd hop the fuck back in bed, and drift off to an eternal slumber. I'm sick to death of stupid people. No I'm not the smartest motherfucker in the world... but I'm not talking about things that take a lot of brain power, so I think its fair to persecute the inanely stupid. Lets see if I can keep this particular rant to a few particular types, and we'll save some for another day, sound good? great.  1) I hate people that chime in after not following a conversation, or listening properly, only to say something ridiculously stupid and / or disrelated. Shut up. Fuck off. Mind your own business. Contrary to popular belief, I do not talk just to hear the sound of my own voice (nb. sometimes I do - just not all the time ;) )  2) you know that saying 'theres no such thing as a stupid question' ? It's wrong. I've heard some very fucken stupid questions, and some ridiculously stupid statements... and people some how confusing one as the other. Gah. DIE DIE DDDDDDDDIE! *breathes* Stupid questions are questions like 'are we there yet?'  well, has the car stopped? are we sitting -on- the beach? no? chances are then that WE'RE NOT FUCKING THERE YET! Stupid answers are horrible too... 'would you like a tea or coffee?'  'oh yes please' *mumbles* GET IT YOURSELF CUNT.  I guess I take for granted that peoples' minds work like mine, and as such credit them with some intelligence, but fuck man, google , yahoo and altavista arent rocket science, wises.co.nz is a piece of cake - why is it , I feel I can safely say 'you've done it wrong' when someone whinges their house/street/friends house isnt on it. Fuckwits. It isnt rocket science, honest. Maybe if it was tho, you'd blow your fucken self up - now *that* I'd applaud.  I cant understand how some people can continuously be clumsy beyond normal limits like ALWAYS get food on themselves and others, always be the one to get shat on by a bird, ALWAYS the one to get the shaken up can, ALWAYS the one to step in dog turd.. then they get this helpless look on their face sorta 'duh what I do now mummy?' oh for fucks sake.. *beats you with a newspaper*  We all make mistakes, SOMETIMES. We all fuck up, OCCASSIONALLY. Why do certain people always seem to be on their ass, covered in food and saying stupid things? I think I've got it worked out to one nice concise statement...  They are smacktards.  That is all. Goodnight.