What is this happiness that we're all supposed to chase.that we all so desperately desire.  Maintaining the status quoslaving at jobs we hate in order to build up our empire of stuff around us? Or is it screwing a job and possessions and instead searching out our whims, living out our adventures? Maybe the icy-bearded Everest climbers have it all figured out. I feel fine most of the time, until society whispers that I should have more, do more, be more. It's all selfishness, I suppose. If we chase things or follow desires or impulses to bring our own fulfillment, where will that get usor more importantly, what will that make us. So if I die to myself and fulfill my commitments and live in black and white for awhile, maybe color will reward me.or maybe the existence or absence of color is just a grass is greener illusion. Why must we chase carrots.why must we always be striving for some ambiguous goalwhy can't we just exist and be stagnantly happy, just like dogsbut then again, is the issue of happiness.is contentment a better word? Comfort perhaps? We humans have proven that we would give anything, do anything, give up anything, to gain comfort and security. Middle class baby boom America exists inside of comfort zones with our hoses and our lawn chairs and flower beds and painted fences and Wal-Mart Saturdays. Is that what happiness looks like?  So many theories exist on how to get happinessjust browse any 'self help' section of any given book storeit's all humanitarian garble'think happy thoughts' they say, 'it's all in your attitude', 'pay it forward' another book recommends. I was once flipping through magazines at the Border's caf and I overheard a woman buying a man a cheesecake who didn't happen to have enough for a cappacino plus the cheesecake. As I listened and pretended to be reading, I heard that it was part of the pay it forward deal she was into (and the guy surely appeared as though cheesecake was the last thing he needed). I'm sure random acts of various kindness may reap some immediate benefits of warm fuzziesbut in the end.again I say where are you. So if you cannot gain this elusive happiness and fulfillment by selfishness or selflessness, then how? What is this slippery idea of happiness and what is it about it that makes us turn into grasping sniveling things, dabbing our eyes and 'remembering our spirits' every day at four o'clock while Oprah, personal guidance counselor to America, directs us in our lives. 'Find your passion' she advises. It makes sense to feel enjoyment if you do things you enjoyobviously. But enjoyment is fleeting, is it not? What is happiness, why do we need it, and how can we find it on this earth? Or does it only lie, above?