Just passing along something that gave me a good laugh....long but I think it is worth it....  WHY DID THE CHICKEN CROSS THE ROAD?   GEORGE W. BUSH  We don't really care why the chicken crossed the road. We  just want to know if the chicken is on our side of the road or not. The  chicken is either with us or it is against us. There is no middle ground  here.  AL GORE  I invented the chicken. I invented the road. Therefore, the chicken  crossing the road represented the application of these two different   functions of government in a new, reinvented way designed to bring  greater  services to the American people.  RALPH NADER  The chicken's habitat on the original side of the road had been  polluted by unchecked industrialist greed. The chicken did not reach the  unspoiled habitat on the other side of the road because it was crushed by  the wheels of a gas-guzzling SUV.  PAT BUCHANAN To steal a job from a decent, hard-working American.  RUSH LIMBAUGH I don't know why the chicken crossed the road, but I'll bet it was  getting  a government grant to cross the road, and I'll bet someone out there is  already forming a support group to help chickens with  crossing-the-road  syndrome. Can you believe this? How much more of this can real Americans  take? Chickens crossing the road paid for by their tax dollars, and when I  say tax dollars, I'm talking about your money, money the government took  from you to build roads for chickens to cross.  MARTHA STEWART No one called to warn me which way that chicken was going. I had a   standing order at the farmer's market to sell my eggs when the price   dropped to a certain level. No little bird gave me any insider   information.  JERRY FALWELL Because the chicken was gay! Isn't it obvious? Can't you people see the  plain truth in front of your face? The chicken was going to the 'other  side.' That's what they call it -- the other side. Yes, my friends, that  chicken is gay. And, if you eat that chicken, you will become gay too. I  say we boycott all chickens until we sort out this abomination that the  liberal media whitewashes with seemingly harmless phrases like 'the other  side.'  DR. SEUSS Did the chicken cross the road?  Did he cross it with a toad?  Yes, The  chicken crossed the road, But why it crossed, I've not been told!  ERNEST HEMINGWAY (my personal favorite....) To die. In the rain. Alone.  MARTIN LUTHER KING, JR. I envision a world where all chickens will be free to cross roads  without  having their motives called into question.  GRANDPA In my day, we didn't ask why the chicken crossed the road. Someone told  us  that the chicken crossed the road, and that was good enough for us.  BARBARA WALTERS Isn't that interesting? In a few moments we will be listening to the  chicken tell, for the first time, the heart-warming story of how it   experienced a serious case of molting and went on to accomplish its   life-long dream of crossing the road.  JOHN LENNON Imagine all the chickens crossing roads in peace.  ARISTOTLE It is the nature of chickens to cross the road.  KARL MARX It was a historical inevitability.  SADDAM HUSSEIN This was an unprovoked act of rebellion and we were quite justified in   dropping 50 tons of nerve gas on it.  VOLTAIRE I may not agree with what the chicken did, but I will defend to the  death  its right to do it.  RONALD REAGAN What chicken?  SIGMUND FREUD The fact that you are at all concerned that the chicken crossed the road  reveals your underlying sexual insecurity.  BILL GATES I have just released eChicken 2003, which will not only cross roads, but  will lay eggs, file your important documents, and balance your checkbook -  and Internet Explorer is an inextricable part of eChicken.  ALBERT EINSTEIN Did the chicken really cross the road or did the road move beneath the   chicken?  BILL CLINTON I did not cross the road with THAT chicken. What do you mean by chicken?  Could you define chicken, please?   THE BIBLE And God came down from the heavens, and He said unto the chicken, 'Thou shalt cross the road.' And the chicken crossed the road, and there was much  rejoicing.  COLONEL SANDERS I missed one?