Last night in class, we were discussing that week’s assigned reading,  urlLink  Getting Back into Place: Toward a Renewed Study of the Place-World, by Edward S. Casey  .  The first chapter deals with “implacement” and the second, “displacement.”  In the first chapter, Casey makes the distinction that our contemporary world and culture revolves around time as the situating force: we are running out of time, we have saved time, we are just in time.  He is trying to make the case that using place as the center of culture gives a more grounded community.  (That is a very rough summation, a disclaimer just in case my professor or any other classmate happens to read this post.)  So far, this book is the first reading that has grabbed me by the proverbial shoulders.  It is a readable mix of history, philosophy and cultural observation and opinion.    During the class’s discussion on time, I abruptly interrupted a fellow classmate who usually makes some interesting points.  (It’s only the third class, and second I’ve attended, so I’m not going on much.)  He described our slavery to the 9-5 machine to survive, and said,  “We essentially become victims to Time.”   I think his tone was slightly tongue in cheek---my read on this is purely in my head, as is my take that the class overall is witty, has a sense of humor, and at times will be snarky, thank goodness), but at the same time, far be it from me not to speak up.  I butted right in.   “I have a problem with the use of the word victims.”   (What am I, I a prosecuting attorney?!)  “More often than not, my job annoys me, and I hate the 9-5 drill.  However, I chose to work this job.  I choose to keep it for now.  These are all decisions I made.  There are plenty of people who make liveable salaries working nontraditional jobs or by freelancing.”  I went on to describe my point.   My professor chimed in too that our options far exceed those of someone in rural China, who might have the option of being a farmer and starving, or working nonstop at the factory.  And then, a strange sensation crept over me.   I had just told my whiny alter-ego to shut the fuck up.   This has increasingly emerged from my subconscious to my conscious in the past few months, and now that I’m looking at new plans for Fall 2004 (five more weeks till I know where all I got in… just five more weeks, 3 days, 5 hours, 34 minutes and 53 seconds… or something), I’m realizing just how in control of things I am.  I am indeed staying in my admin-monkey job while I save (which I’m realizing now is just as much a choice as it is to buy clothes… this is a hard concept if you come from a family where new clothes solve all problems), and looking at freelance opportunities, and at the possibility of going full time come the fall… because I want to spend 2 years writing, not being tired and exhausted and broke because I’m doing school and work half-assed.    So yeah.  That was my great revelation.  I’ll be posting more on thoughts about my class as I find damn fascinating, even though I’m completely lost as to the anthropological history and theory.  Today’s drink:  urlLink Naked’s  Green Machine: Consisting of 1300 mg of Spirulina, 400 mg of Chlorella, 100 mg of Green Tea, 100 mg of Broccoli, 100 mg of Spinach, 50 mg of Blue Green Algae, 50 mg. Of Garlic, 50 mg of Echinacea, 75 mg of Barley Grass, and 75 mg of Wheat Grass, plus 1 full pound of apples, pears, mango, banana, pineapple and kiwi.  And it tastes pretty good!    Next thing you know I’ll be wearing Birkenstocks and stomping on Granola.