So, yeah, now I have a little time to type. I don't know, I guess...all in all band camp wasn't completely wretched, but it certainly wasn't the best or easiest experience of my life. We worked so much and it was so hot. We didn't run or do basics nearly as much as I expected, and basics on the last day was actually quite funny. We did performance basics and the whole trumpet section had to act like puppy dogs. Haha, quite funny. Sectionals were really good actually. Peter's a good music section leader. I don't know what's up with him in general. I honestly don't know whether he hates me or is friends with me. He's so stolid. Ah well. Haha, that reminds me of the, 'norkus' thing. It will probably get incredibly annoying soon, but right now it's pretty funny, and I guess it makes me feel sort of special. When they count, instead of going, 'One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight,' they go, 'One, two, three, four, five, six, 7, NORKUS!' It was pretty funny. Peter and Nathan came up with it, and they started doing it, then the whole trumpet section started doing it, and then like...half the people in band started it. Haha. Oh, and 92 is also a, 'Norkus.' Heh. Wow. There were some people thought that I really could have done without this week, and I'm sure people feel that way about me too. I don't know. I tried, to be nice, but sometimes I was just like, 'please...let me be alone for five seconds.' And the stalker didn't help things much. Bryan helped out by coming over every time and saying, 'Catie, my lover.' Haha. Last night we had the last supper with Bryan because on the first day of band camp he started bleeding and Steve goes, 'It's the blood of Reist.' I don't know, I thought it was kind of funny, but I can see how it would offend some people. The first day of band camp was the worst. Yeah, it was only team building and stuff but it was SO long, and in the morning, I got sick. That was the worst. I hardly EVER get sick to my stomache, so it stunk.   Then there were a bunch of people who actually got sick at camp, like Cory who got stung by the bee and passed out and an ambulance came and everything. I was pretty worried, but I didn't cry like a lot of people. Really, a ton of people were crying and stuff. I felt really bad for them. Then last night, I was just in the saddest mood. I don't know what it was, but I was just in a very bad mood. Well, later in the night. So, tomorrow we have the parent presentation. Argh. Another three hour rehearsal. GRRRR. And then rehearsal on Wednesday and Thursday next week after school. Rehearsal after the first day of school!! Poo. I don't want to go to school in the first place so...that sucks too. Dag nabbit. Stupid school. I wish summer wasn't ending. I was looking forward to going back and seeing everyone, but I don't know anymore. Band camp shouldn't have anoyed me as much as it did at all. I wasn't even in a cabin with anyone I know well.   Well, I have stuff to do before Joanne's, so...I shall write more later possibly.  She's leaving in 5 days. :( This makes me really really sad.   Hmmm, something I just realized...it has been raining and storming ALL summer. Like, at least once a week but when we go to band camp, what happens??? No clouds. No rain. Only clear blue sky with sun beating down on the open football field so it's 95 degrees!!!!!  One more thing that's frustrating. Bugs. Argh. I have learned to appreciate how few bugs there are in Naperville. It's the little things in life...