Yesterday, a Saturday, a day not to be forgotten, Tomorrow, a Sunday, a day I'm going to be spoilt rotten, Why yesterday, a Saturday, a day I shouldn't forget? Why...it's a day I've spent that I'll never forget! ~Shakespeare Mistress, Marilyn Ong May23Yr04;12:45   Ok. OKAY! I maybe some cheap poet and composed the worst poetry that I think anyone would even pay to see my poetry being burnt if they were written on papers! Yeah, why the heck I would be spoilt rotten on a Sunday anyway? Don't know myself...poetry's supposed to be ambiguous. Go ahead, it's open to your own interpretation. I welcome your thoughts!  I had another road trip to  urlLink Stratford-upon-Avon  , this time a ladies' trip with Nobuko and Irina. I've got to say it was a real rush popping in and out of the famous houses in the Shakepeare's Town as we arrived there at noon. Well, as anybody would have guessed it, I need to fill my tummy first, so we had lunch in the garden opposite the  urlLink Swan Theatre .   Although we started at noon to tour the houses, we managed to brisk walk all  urlLink Shakepeare Houses . Spent most of the time in Shakepeare's Birthplace and Exhibition as I really wanted to know more about this super poet and dramatist. I traced his life all the way back trying to find if there was in any way a similarity to my life as well. Hehe... I have a shameless thought! Unfortunately, I cannot be compared to this human extraodinaire. He came from a humble background and then became rich and famous through his great works of playwriting and sonnets. Okay, I've learnt that although it was good to work your way up from scratch, I'm working towards it a little tad different, which is not-so-rich and not-so-famous. I'm happy to earn enough to take my arse around the world and to get me country house without having to be bugged by the public.   The worst was Mary Arden's House (Home of Shakepeare's mother) and The Shakespeare Countryside Museum as we hardly took a good look at what's there accept that we had somekind of a notion that it's a farm or barn where there's pink pigs,black & white cattles, white owls, etc. Oh... and I even saw Rikki, the Snowy Owl who has appeared in the Harry Potter films but I haven't watched any of the Potter films so I wasn't abit impressed. I enjoyed all the gardens and most of all the sun, as it was shining brightly everytime we were in the garden. But, although there was alot of sunhine to roast my cheeks, it was a cold day. Really eerily cold. Weird.  They said that Stratford makes an ideal setting for romantic breaks but I beg to differ. All these lovely histories told about Shakespeare Town does have its appeal if you and your darling other half are both historians. I don't think I wanna do that exchanging love vows thing in that town and have the ghost of Shakespeare to witness it...well, unless we have a really good original poetry to read for each other, then Sir Will WILL NOT be rolling in his grave. I hope...  After much sight seeing and seeing the sights of lovey-dovey couples around the so-called romantic town, we head back to Loughborough for another surprise... I'll save for the next entry. Gotta hit the sack!