Rears [His, Her, Its] Ugly Head   Over the weekend, a friend I hadn't seen in a while asked me if I was going to see  urlLink  Fahrenheit 9/11  ...my answer is filled with apprehension. Once again, Michael Moore reared his ugly head--which as you can tell from the title of this post is one of my favorite expressions. I have a nice mental image of a hulking, dark beast that suddenly shows its even more ominous face, lit by dark sinister eyes and gleaming teeth.   That being said, I have a littany of reservations about seeing this film. First, I'm fairly certain  it isn't a documentary . I am a big fan of the documentary format ever since I started watching basic cable in the early '90s. Lions, whales, insects and my favorite sharks (esp. Shark Week): hidden cameras documenting elements of nature with British scientists narrating the footage as the animals behaved as they might with no camera present. The main problem with Mr Moore is that he goes in the opposite direction. Having seen  Bowling for Columbine  and  Roger and Me , Moore will probably cut and edit his footage making President Bush look criminally stupid and the aftermath of the 9/11 attack and subsequent wars in Afghanistan and Iraq as the evil imperialist machinations of the big oil/neo-conservative cabal---all narrated with Moore's characteristically simple questions that drip with sarcasm and condescention. Now, that might be a valid point of view and Moore's point of view, but Moore won't be presenting his subject matter in this way. He will use the information, footage and quotes that support his point of view, but this makes it a film of persuation. In earlier eras, this sort of film was called a propaganda film. In essence, Moore makes movies as if he was a man doing research and publishing his findings, method, data and thesis in a journal  urlLink like Science , but instead he's just another editorial writer in a major magazine. The most pernicious aspect of this is that the average american who walks into a Michael Moore movie probably doesn't realize the need to make this distinction. (You can read Moore  urlLink defend himself here ).  In case I've gotten my point confused, my bone to pick here is that Moore makes movies that represent opinion, whether you agree with his opinion or not--but he represents his opinions heavy handedly as fact. Other good documentary makers tread the line of impartiality much more carefully or at least present some facts and provide alternate theories. Some of you might want to check out  urlLink Biggie and Tupac  by Nick Broomfield. He does some of Moore's trade-mark ambush-style interviews, but isn't as sarcastic or self-righteous. I think that is what really bothers me most about Moore and his ilk. He's so self-righteous, wrapping himself in the cloak of saintly truth-giver, injustice-fighter and matyr. (isn't it obvious that gunmakers/GeneralMotors/PresidentBush are nothing but evil and wrong?--but 'they' don't want to let me tell you!!) So, although I might go to see  Fahrenheit 9/11  because Moore's film might entertain me, expose me to a different point of view and possibly enrage me, I think Moore illustrates a cancer in the left's 'activist' camp, namely that if the cause is 'right' then the means are justified: be they propaganda films moonlighting as documentaries or the ridiculous lengths gone to in the crusade against big tobacco.   I also want to address some of the controversy that his film has created. When Disney/Miramax did not want to distribute this film, Moore predictably cried foul. He was a victim of the unholy union of Jeb Bush and Disney's interests in Orlando. His allies shrieked, 'censorship! first amendment! freedom of speech!' Firstly, censorship is by definition an act of restriction by the government or some other organ with authority. A private entity deciding NOT to publish/distribute something is called tact or better judgement. Disney/Miramax did not stop Moore from producing his film, nor would they (or could they) stop him from distributing it on his own. Hey, I've got some pretty crazy ideas about life, it doesn't mean if I make a movie about it, a company  has  to distribute it. Disney/Miramax has responsiblilities to its shareholders and arguably to society. Some were critical when Miramax released Kill Bill vol. 1 because its was over-the-top with graphic depictions of violence. Disney could have nixed Kill Bill because of these concerns...indeed its not-uncommon for movie studios to have films re-edited to reach an R-rating or PG-rating. Most companies deliberately avoid overtly supporting any party or candidate in an election year. If Disney were to distribute this film, they would have to fear potentially alienating anyone who finds Moore's opinions repugnant (at last count probably somewhere around 49.99% of the US population). Politics today are definitely more contentious and heated than they were a decade ago. Maybe Disney thought it would be irresponsible (both to their shareholders and to society) to mass-distribute a propaganda film chock-full of only one side of the issue. (Now that you've digested some of what I've had to say, watch the trailer  urlLink here )