Thursday’s Show (5/13/04)   Well I found yesterday’s show to be ‘vintage’ Honsberger.  Aside from what Mike has mentioned:  1.Fred told a caller that he was, “absolutely wrong” when the caller said Berg was beheaded in retaliation for the abuse of Iraqi prisoners.  Fred based his arguments on two things:  That Berg was kidnapped before the media storm on the torture and that reporter, Daniel Pearl, had also been beheaded.  First while I am somewhat tempted to believe that the Honzman can read the minds of the terrorists because he shares a similar rigid, black & white view of the world, there is no way that he could be absolutely certain of the motives of these people.  Secondly, while Nick Berg was kidnapped before the pictures from the notorious Abu Ghraib jail came to light, that does not necessarily mean that they had intended to behead him from the start.  And thirdly, not everyone who has been kidnapped has been beheaded.  2. When the same caller asked Honsberger why they (terrorists?  Islamisists? The Middle East?) hated us, Fred replied, “We’ve done nothing to them.”  Can I have a witness?  While not in any way excusing the beheading of Berg or terrorism in general, to say that we’ve done nothing objectionable in the Middle East is a lie of the highest sort.  A short catalog of our abuse could include:   - The U.S. overthrew Prime Minister Mossadeq of Iran and installed the Shah as dictator.  - The U.S. trained Osama bin Laden and fellow terrorists to kill Soviets. The CIA gave them $3 billion in ‘aid.’ - We provided billions in aid to Saddam Hussein for weapons to kill Iranians.  - The White House secretly gave Iran weapons to help them kill Iraqis. (Just which side were we on?!?) - Iraq invaded Kuwait with weapons from the U.S. - We bomb Iraq for invading Kuwait even though US Ambassador, April Gillespie, basically told Hussein that his fight with Kuwait would be considered “an internal matter.”  Bush 41 then reinstated the dictator of Kuwait. - American planes bombed Iraq on a weekly basis throughout the ‘90s. (U.N. estimates 500,000 Iraqi children die from the bombing and sanctions.) - Bush 43 gave Taliban-ruled Afghanistan $245 million in 'aid'. - We can’t possibly be considered as neutral in the Israel/Palestine conflict.  Can I have an Amen, somebody?  3. In his continuing effort to provide his viewers with worthwhile and informative guests, Richard Poe, author and Newsmax.com contributor called in for an interview.  While savaging George Soros, Poe compared people on the Left to those in this country who stayed loyal to King George during the Revolutionary War and who would one day face, ‘the Ultimate Judge.’ He went so far as to tell a caller who defended  urlLink moveon.org  that, “There are some people like me who love this country and there are some people like you who hate this country.”  Honsberger’s only comment on that disgusting statement was along the lines of everyone’s entitled to their opinion. Ugh!