So this whole thing turned out to be quite a disappointment. On friday i decided to stay home and watch urllink koh lanta , the french version of urllink survivor (or urllink robinson to those of you who know the original), inaptly named after a not very desert urllink island off the thai coast. It's been like 10 years since the show first aired in sweden but the concept still works. It's much more fun when people suffer. The next morning i went down to the beach, swam a bit and lay in the sun. I just love being able to dive into the sea whenever i feel like it. The beach in nice is not the best though. There's no sand, but small stones, and it kills your feet. I prefer the beach at urllink juan les pins , but then you have to take your car and finding a parking spot is impossible if you're not there before noon (i rarely get up that early on a weekend). In the afternoon i went shopping for a new pair of sneakers, but i didn't find what i was looking for (color). I did buy a dryfit singlet to look good while running. That evening i was supposed to go with a couple of friends to urllink la siesta , an open air night club/casino near urllink antibes where french house dj laurent wolf was playing. Finally,at 9 am i got a call saying the whole thing was off. I was, to say the least, disappointed. Since i was now on my own, i decided not to go clubbing but to hit the bars. I went to urllink wayne's as on many occation before, to chat with the nice anglo-american girls that always come there. On this lovely evening, not one but two bachelorette parties came by and i stole a kiss from one of the many pretty bridesmaids. This was without end for they soon left to the dismay of many a man. Later on, i hooked up with two british girls (a blond and a brunette in their late 20's, both good looking) and convinced them to go to urllink l'escalier (as usual). It so happened that urllink goa , one of the legends of nice night life, had found their friend, so the five of us headed to over there. The time we got to the bar, there was a huge line outside. Goa tried to get us in through his connections, but me and the brunette got stuck outside. The other girls soon came back out and them not wanting to cue again, i accompanied them to their hotel. On the way there i found out, to my surprise, that the blonde had a kid and was about to be married. Oops. That made 3 soon-to-be brides and the circle was closed. I had foretold this moment earlier in the evening when i told one of the brides ' 3 brides in one evening would be a miracle and bring you good fortune for the rest of your days '. I took this as a sign and kissed the girls goodbye to wander home on my own.