This past week has been nothing short of exhausting. I spent tuesday-thursday finishing the move to my new classroom. The new room is bigger and closer to my grade level team, these are the things i need to consider as i spend hours upon hours preparing my room for this year. Had i known i was going to move prior to the end of my school year, i would have discarded much of the books and supplies i no longer use. Unfortunately, it all came with me. So this week was spent moving, unpacking, and purging profusely. I have to thank my teammate jill for helping with all of this. You see, she was still teaching this month, in my old room. So she and her lovely students moved almost my entire room for me! this allowed me to come and move far less and in turn spend less days at school. For this i am forever grateful! :) in puppy news, tuesday urllink lola had a play date with norman. Norman is an excitable 6 month old chocolate lab who resides with mike and erin. Lola and norman were joined by sassy(i think that is her name) when she broke down two panels of the fence on the back of the yard. This very large dag added to the excitement and mud. The three dogs seemed to get along quite well but brian and i were very worried about lola's biting. The other dogs would mouth (pretend to bite) each other but lola would bite and hold on...as the dog walked away. This seemed harmless at first, the dogs didn't seem to mind...much. Unfortunately, norman called out a few times in slight pain and brian and i decided we had enough of this biting thing. We are currently in search of ideas to stop this. One step is the senior puppy class we are taking at urllink the right steps . Valerie seems like an amazing trainer and we can't wait! this week has also been filled with movies! on wednesday brian and i had dinner at the urllink tower cafe . Afterward we went and saw urllink farhenheit 9/11 . Michael moore is a great film maker that has a unique way of making a point....and making me cry. It was difficult to see the clips from 9/11 and from the war in iraq. I hope that our country finds a way to resolve this soon and bring our soldiers home. After that movie, i was in the mood for something a bit lighter. On thursday we watched urllink 50 first dates . I absolutely loved this movie!!! the animals are adorable, adam sandler is a genuinely nice guy, and when i wasn't laughing, i was sighing at the sweetness of the movie. Two thumbs up!! friday i joined my friend catherine for a bite to eat at the urllink elephant bar and then we went and saw urllink the stepford wives . I have not seen the original but this movie was bizarre. It had not gotten good ratings so i went in expecting a fairly bad movie. I wouldn't clasify this movie as bad, it was more strange than anything. There were moments that i laughed outloud and moments that i just sat there with my mouth wide open. If you are bored some night when it comes out on video...it might be worth seeing. Today, saturday, we are on our way to see urllink spiderman 2 , which has been getting good reviews. I am really looking forward to it! which leads me to the end of this blog. I must run, i think we are leaving now to pick up jon. Till next time.....