*looks around and falls over, dead.*  today was insanely crappy.  Hm, i can see Brighton out the window. She was talking to someone, then her friend yelled' brighton!' and brighton left. alrighty. it seems that whenver im having a crappy day, she comes along and makes it worse. at least in the days before break and today.  today was shitty. just shitty.  lets see....had english first...that was incredibly boring, but i lived. then biology. i did my extra credit and wanted to turn it all in, but there was a substitute. and i ahd been all happy that i finished a day early!!! now ill have to rush....ack. it has to be in by 12 15 tomorrow.  oh well. holly just asked me to help her with a tech thing. i was lost. lol  brighton returned...*looks around* i should be in math right now, studying. I got a C or D on the last test, really below what ive been getting this quarter, all because i missed 3 problems. ack.  this guy brian went into my locker and stole my gift for yanna. it was like a $5.99 princess kelly doll, but still. coward. you're a damn coward alex. yes. *begins cursing self out* i hope brian goes to hell. lol. he called it a crack barbie!!!! bastard, i dont like him anymore. ill give him dirty looks when isee him next. i even asked him where he got it 'i dont know'. bitch. lol  brighton turned around and looked at me quickly. i hope she comes in. not really, thatd be awkward. but then id start writing nasty things about her and dare her to look. lol..i crack myself up.   hal is playing neopets with a 6th or 7th grader. nice. and he just showed me his origami cup collection. that boy is a little weird. but he's arias friend....  everyone was back again from being sick. nice for them. sarah has lots of tests to make up right after finals. she'll try before but doubt that'll happen.  i had a really weird dream last night. it was a nice dream tho. i cant tall anyone tho, very private stuff. :P  la vida es una mentira. la verdad es falsa. te amo sin razon, y te quiero con amor sorda. its a song. lol. sort of. very singy songy.  rudys is hugging/choking the girl brightons talking to. i hope he falls on her and she falls on brightong and brighton dies. IM KIDDING!!!!!! lol  aisha...she'll proabbly be available this week. i wont be though, dmanit. ill be studying. tons of history reading, bio homework, spanish-hah, right- yeah. i guess thats it tho, bio and history. oh well.  it was really cold today. my jacket(yay, it was suit day!!!) didnt work well. lol, in the car i noticed it was blue, not black.  ill try to bring the lock i brought to school tomorrow. so that way the pigdog brian cant get it. lol...psycho(me)  now on to politics...most americans are pathetic. they love movies like kill bill and the tx chainsaw massacre, yet when the TV says '2 soldiers died in a carbomb today' they cry and say thats terrible- poor, poor soldiers who could have refused to serve in iraq. oh yes, and no one cares when NBC says after 'oh yes, in other news, we forgot to mention that 17 civilians were killed by soldiers in peaceful protests the day after saddam was captured. oh well. damn iraqis shouldnt say anything bad about america. er we'll com'n get um.   lol.  i dont feel like stopping.  brighton left.  ahh i miss the mexican hotsicle. i hope i go back in summer, if not march. i have to go. im 10 mins late.   much love  peace  ~alex  'i think i just spit on myself.'