My mom's leaving for Cebu today and as usual it drive me crazy. I hate it when someone from my family leaves for someplace coz I always get this uneasy feeling. I guess if you experienced something 'traumatic' in your life, maybe ul react the same way coz I've watch E-profiles the other and I saw this actress talk about the same fear. And she got that coz her bestfriend died and they were not able to do that they've planned to do. So, she went into this phase where everytime she gets separated with someone she makes it a point to end it in a nice way or do something nice for fear that that migth be the last time they'll see each other again. Same goes with me, I always do that...all the time! And that's coz of what happened when my grandma died. I was here in college then and she was in the province. Before I left, we got into a fight and I was really short-tempered with her, not knowing that it will be our last moment together. =( I was so devastated and I really felt bad for being so bad with her esp. since she's the closest to me above all people and I grew up with her. So, there goes...  I hope jan can make me feel better about this...coz he always does. He's like my bestfriend now eventhough he's such a brat sometimes. But I know he loves me. He told me he didn't like the graphic on the pillowcase I gave him (I kinda expected that) and that he removed it from the pillowcase. Then I just stopped saying to him anything on the phone and he kept on saying 'are u crying? pls jan, hon, pls don't cry...hey, r u crying?' and he went over and over. So, I know that he cares about me coz he got really worried that I was crying, but I was not. Someone just came into the room so I can't talk.   These past couple of days ym seems to get messed up at around the time when we're supposed to chat. At last, today, we were able to talk longer. And it was a nice talk. We talked about how we don't seem to get anything done coz we keep on doing stuff we're not supposed to do and how we might find out too late that we've wasted our time and all. We have the same problems really except that I'm hooked on TV and he on doing nothing and hanging-out with friends. He told me about school too and he told me he'll send me his comp maybe I can help him out. Just like two friends, right? Not to mention, he's planning to hook up his cousin with my best friend. Silly jan, but I love it. I feel so close to him like this.  Anyways, I have to do my report for Saturday first. I hope mom will have a safe trip. May God be with her in her travel. I (we) haven't been so nice to her lately and I know she deserves the best treatment. She's the best mom in the world and we don't even show her how much we appreciate her and everything she does at home! I love you mom! Mwaaaaaaaaaaaaaah. Big kiss for you! :X