I think i need to start makeing some real friends. I know I have friends. But you know how you see a  group of ppl who are inceparable. I have one friend like that but it would be nice for a couple more. Kelsey is pretty nifty. Shes crazy in a not bad way. but i dont thinki she looks at me like a friend outside of school way. mainly becausse we are not friends outside of school except over the internet when she gets online.im really happy to have met her thought. It saddens me that she wants to graduate early. she could do it. exspecially since she has her mind set to it. i think my worst habbet is not trying to get to know ppl better.  Its alot diffrent  being at a new school and not knowing everone. I hate CHS though. I had friends there and still do go out with them and stuff but they were all so inmature. and still are. except for my chs crew noone kept in touch. Because im not immature and dont goof around like they do.  My moter use to tell me that i didnt have any friends and one tiem she said did you get an invite to soinsos birthday. She was and is a compleate Bitch. Soinso haddent handed out the invites yet. She always did stuff like that at the school. aLot. She pulled me out of class a while back.   a couple of years ago and compleatly chewed me out over something stupid. She wored there. That was when i decided to change schools. Of choures i did adn she 'QUIT'. Personally i think She got fired. SHe was and again is physco. she has told me she had quit alot of jobs since then but ive heard from reliable sources that she was fired. Mainly for stealing things like at belks I hope nothing she has got for me was stolen. I would hate that. i mean eah that would just suck. but yeah anywho. Im really glad i moved schools. I realized that larger schools are way better. in smaller schools its so small that all pple can do it stay in otheres businessand tell lies ans so f .forth . (make fun of ppl) Since i have caome to this school i ahve not had one negitive commint made twords me. Its nuce and ppl act like they care other thatn to have there noses in it. Yeah i dont knwo if im done with that subject but ill say i am just to move on. Maybe.   well if you were watching me type this you would have realized a long pause. I have nothing right now but maybee later.    well later then.