Something I should admit from the outset: I'm a raging, closeted, Gilmore Girls fan. Since Australian TV is disappointingly behind when it comes to US TV shows, I choose to obtain my fix by utilising the marvels of a broadband connection and bittorrent.  Tonight, not five minutes ago, I watched the last episode of Gilmore Girls for the season. The following is my post on the Gilmore Girls usenet group regarding the series final (yes, I'm THAT much of a fan):   **There be SPOILERS Here***    I give this one a solid 5. I yelled in dismay when it ended.  The weekend at the Dragonfly brought the characters together splendidly for the final episode of the season. The fact that they were all brought together at the inn really cemented the budding relationships between Luke and Lorelai and Dean and Rory. It reminded me, in a way, of school camp - when all the kids would get together and shenanigans would reign because of the sheer concentration of living in such close quarters.   Oh yeah, that's right, I said budding relationship. I predict a return to Dean and Rory as a couple, following a few weeks of self-inflicted torture for Rory after going to Europe with her grandmother, deciding she needed some time away to decide things. Although Dean really did love Rory throughout it all - and Luke can vouch for that - we know he won't leave Lindsay at the drop of a hat. OTOH, Rory's been looking for little more than security in her past few exchanges with Dean - a shoulder to cry on, or someone to come and rescue her when she needed it. Perhaps the torment of being the other woman will finally force Rory into deciding exactly how she feels about Dean, and appreciate him this time.   Now I am seriously devoid of televisual products for the next few months. Gilmore Girls and Scrubs are over. Queer eye is on a hiatus, and hell...even the Newlyweds aren't being shown anymore. It's lucky that I have piles and piles of work to do before this semester ends in the beginning of June. But what about my work distractions? What will I do during the Winter holidays? ARGH!   I feel dirty.