Just A Thought  Back in the day when my friends would get annoyed and say that I was opinionated, I would deny it.  I have since learned to embrace it, and accept the fact that I do have an opinion about most subjects.  I am actually multi-opinioned!  So recently when someone would ask me what I think about the war, at first (before it actually began) I would give an opinion, but then it became moot.  Not because they said that we were winning the war.  But because I suddenly had a different view of what the 'big picture' might be.  I had a thought...  The U.S. is focusing on the wrong enemy...Sadaam, Osama, North Korea are not where we should be focusing our fear.  We should be worried about the fact that whatever the feeling was in this country that prompted the fore-fathers to put 'In God We Trust' on the currency has dissipated.  I recently read an e-mail expressing concern about the movement to take 'under God' out of the pledge of allegience and 'in God we trust' off of the currency.  I couldn't help but wonder why people were so shocked about the possibility of these things happening, when it is the obvious next step.  I'll explain...  The e-mail also stated that statistics show that 84% of Americans believe in God.  My question is how many of us 'believers' wake up every morning and say to ourselves, 'Today I'm going to do something to please God? or what am I not going to do?'  How many of us 'believers' are actually serving Him in some capacity? I am not a religious fanatic...Hell, most days I suck at being a Christian.  But in my attempt to read the bible in a year, I can't help but notice what happens to God's people when they turn their backs on Him.  Who can turn on a television, radio or read a newspaper, and still give a valid and convincing argument that the U.S. has not done just that.  And we've done it in the worst way possible...by selling the souls of our children to the devil.    Everywhere they look they're being encouraged to smoke, drink and have sex (with anyone they want!).  It's easier for them to get their hands on drugs and guns than it is to get a good and safe education.  Because I work with kids, it's hard for me to ignore the fact that our education system is a joke.  There truly is no effort to educate all kids equally. If you ask an average middle school kid in a low income community to define flabergasted, he/she would probably say that it's a fat person who farted. I wont try to give a solution to this problem, but I will leave you with this...  On his website, www.infinitekarma.com, my friend Wallace asks this question: 'If people have karma, do nations have karma?  If so, what will we do when this nation's chickens come home to roost?'