Ahhh, just about 24 hours ago, I was in suntec watching Vai and his band play. The first gig I've been to, and its great. I went with Amanda, someone I met on the net, from ultimate-guitar, the gig was not too bad. Billy Sheehan on bass, nothing short of a legend, this guy. Tony Macalpine, Dave Weiner on rhythym guitar, and some Jeremy (couldn't catch his last name), was on drums. The drummer was kinda punk without shirt, spiked hair, tatooes and looked a little young, but yea, punk have some good drummers.  They opened with some fat boy song which I didn't really know, maybe its just me, but Amanda seemed kinda bored lol. The opening was a few more faster Vai material, he shredding, stuff like that. He used DSL/TSLs not too sure which one, not the carvin legacy amps he used to use. Don't know about that though, but its good, cos' I can see that its not any mode four shit, I don't like the mode four anyway. I guess the rest of the 2, macalpine and weiner were using JCMs, if I'm not wrong, from the tone, and JCMs are more suited for rhythym.  The parts I really liked was Macalpine's piano solo, and it was awesome man, the way he play was really damn great, I can tell he improvised and he has awesome technique on the piano, really wonderful. He's also wonderful on the guitar, of course his skill is overshadowed by vai. The drummer is not too bad as well, great double bass stuff. But as for sheehan, I can appreciate keyboard, drum and of course guitar solos, but not really bass. So, I didn't really appreciate it. But I know that Sheehan does harmonics like he's just fretting notes.  Vai has many revolutionary techniques I can say, personal ones, especially his tremolo work, one thing I really really have to learn is how he manage to keep the notes articulate only using the fretting hand! Even paul Gilbert can't do that stuff, and I can say that Paul Gilbert does not really match up to any one of those who played in G3 before (I don't know if he did play in G3). But anyway, Gilbert's technique is quite ok, and his scale knowledge is not too bad, but he's still not that good. I've been using my floyd more often after that, and lowering my action. I was really inspired but I hope that this inspiration would continue.  I can now see MANY MANY flaws in my technique, including the need to use my pinky more often. I'll also start working on my piano, after seeing macalpine. The part also I liked when a Singaporean guitarist jammed with Vai onstage along Little Wing. And I can say that whenever I hear Little Wing, I start to think back to this gig, as well as anything by Vai, its the whole 'Vai' vibe which brings me back thinking.  I am not that well acquainted with Vai's material as well with Satch, I know Satch's stuff more than Vai which is why I cannot catch all the songs he played, maybe except for Bad Horsie. I was actually hoping that he would play Answers and hopefully Beethoven's 5th, but he didn't but its fine, but at least he played little wing, which I was really hoping he would.  The gig's kinda long though, it was scheduled to start at 8, but it started at close to 8:15. Ended at 11. Kinda long though the gig, but I think overall, seeing Vai play in person was really worth it. The crowd actually was more of working professionals and 20 somethings. I doubt if adolescents would go though, they are all to caught up with the nu-metal shit. But yea, I can't believe they played some nu-metal CD before the gig started, ahhhhhh, crap. But anyway, this gig is a very very memorable one........really..........