Well, I was at the gym yesterday, doing my weight routine, when I here some Creatine/Steroid dumbass' talking about politics. Before I got into a fight over their stupidity and the doom of any children they have, due to lack of intelligence, I decided to move over to a treadmill and do some cardio. I had a 25 pound weight in my hand and seriously considered beating them both in the head with it. My tollerance for listening or dealing with stupid people is getting low and I am worried I will end up beating someone's ass here soon.  I saw the stuff on TV regarding the beheading. I thought it was stupid of him to be over there, but then I thought-fuck it, people have been traveling the globe for centuries and he should have the right to move around where he wants. My thought is everyone should be able to go where they want-get hassled-probably-but not killed. Beheading a civilian, yeah, that makes me fucking sympathetic to everyone in Iraq right now-Fuck'em. We shouldn't ever mistreat POW's, but beheading a countrymen of mine to try to sway my thoughts on this war, only makes me angry enough to think we should just drive through the streets of the towns and shoot anything moving. I was sympathetic to those prisoners, I was already pissed off at our guys, and pissed off at military brass and the administration for not finding out and kicking the shit out of people sooner. This little beheading thing, only makes me stop in my tracks and think about supporting an even more agressive view on this war. About leaving my human compassion on the ground, picking up a gun, going over there and just start killing people. That's wrong and I know it is, but I see stuff sometimes and start to feel myself losing my temper and going into a rage. I don't think these Islamic militants understand the American mind very well. Leaving us alone will further your cause-fucking with us only makes the general masses want to fuck you up and spit on your cause. I mean how many times do you go to the store and some group is trying to get you to give them money. Don't most of yall usually give, considering the organization of course, if they are more passive than agressive? I am now on a holy war or Jihad of my own to take out all crazy militant religious nuts Christians, Muslims, Jews, Buddhists, Shintos, etc. They're fucking up the rotation. I could use Jesus with a AK-47 and a banana clip right now the way I am feeling. Of course for the rest of you, your God with an AK-47 will work fine too.  If anyone didn't see Tim Russert on The Daily Show last night, it was really good. Him and Jon Stewart really brought up a lot of good points about everything going on. If you get to see the repeat-highly suggest you view it. Russert said Americans do have a responsibility, militarily to be held to a higher standard, because not only do we usually do it, we, as a citizen base, expect it as well. Not an exact quote-but yall get the jist. Like I said check it out when you can.