Wow, so, yes. Yesterday was fun. i went the whole school day without talking. It was interesting. I get $20 though. YaY! But, yeah, I couldn't write down that I was in a bet with someone, or speak obviously, so...I had to get one person to guess. Luckily after that one person guessed it was easier, because I got him to tell some people, etc. It was fun. So, then I went home, couldn't find my dress for the concert and freaked out. Haha. I found it eventually, but...still. Um, I went to the concert, and it was fun. We didn't suck horribly shockingly. I was amazed. Concert band was ok. Kristen and I sat there and found six good things about them. 1.) Red bow ties, 2.) Recognizeable melody, 3.) Good beat, 4.) When they stood up, they made this arch type thing, tallest in the middle, and shortest going out, 5.) Mr. S! 6.)Hmmm, I do not remember. Oh well. We did come up with six.   So, it was fun overall, but, I was glad to get home and sleep. It was exciting. I actually slept the whole night without waking up once. I was so tired I guess.   Today was ok. Just a pretty normal day until marching. Well, actually...marching was pretty normal too, but...yeah. We just did washington post, like we do every parade, and then went outside and marched for a bit. Fun stuff, 'eh? Hmmm. Brandon drove me home, and here I am. Heh.  I feel terrible though. I have this joke with my friend. She's incredibly skinny, and it's this joke about her being fat, and complaining about it and whatnot, but...I didn't think before I put this joking away message on that said how I don't like when people who are skinny think they're fat, but...I really didn't think before I spoke, or...wrote I guess. So, of course someone who I really hadn't intended to hurt, or even direct that toward saw it, and...I think she got upset. I was looking at her away message, and she seemed kind of upset, so...I looked at her diary thing, and I saw. I just, feel so terrible I tried calling her but she's eating dinner. I really need to talk to her and straighten this out, because it wasn't ablout her. Argh. I REALLY need to be more careful of what I say. Heh, this gives me a good example for my speech on how people need to think before they say things though.    Yes, she got online. Phew!