An admirer. How Wonderful! Finally my intellectual prowess has become as attractive as my godlike body. jokes  It was only a matter of time before the ladies (I hope that my admirer is a she, 'cause I don't want a gay admirer... not that there's anything wrong with that) could find me on the website.  Now that my short little ego trip is finished, I'd like to commend H to the orkypoo for his amazing job with the flounder merchandise.  That thong, so hot right now. I wonder what the front office lady will think if you receive the 5 Klons Thongs. Oh La La!  I am so getting the mug.  Welcome back Bishy!  The Judge is back!  Your toightness was sorely missed by the blog in your short absence.  We still love you with all our body including our pee-pee  (he heh he... pee pee, i said a nasty, he he he...) You will have to give us a time for the presentation of the klondike to Horkins for his 6 line mastery.  He surely deserves it after a 5 klons performance.  I was thinking about posting some photos of myself on the web, but... I decided against this, for the legacy of Cooplander must be shrouded in a cloak of mystery and weirdness.  BLUE STEEL!!  FEEL THE BEAUTY!!!  Sorry about that. Got carried away. Late photo shoot. heheh hheh  Lastly, don't worry about Cooplander the male model.  If you want more stories they will come.  The adventures of Cooplander and his alter ego Henry Kinkaed will continue if the demand is great enough.  If it is stories you want then send feedback to Flounder and I will do the rest.  Last thing (I swear it is this time) its fun to yell at people from a car when you are drunk. Such intellectual phrases as 'WASH MY SHORTS!' or 'WHICH WAY TO NEW JERSEY?' or 'MAKE MY BED!' I'm even a little drunk right now so... 'EVERYONE WASH MY SHORTS!' he he he....  See y'all at the test of our theatre skills. And where are all my fans?  I only have 2 votes in the dopest blogger contest and I know who voted (hint: I have two computers in my house) FANS OF COOPLANDER, UNITE! SHOW YOURSELVES!!!!!!!  All I have to say is... TOODLES!