I think that y'all should take a moment to observe that while the rest of the country is in the security land of Bert; in NYC, its Ernie.  Ain't it the truth.  So I cut all my hair off.  Well, I cut most of my hair off.  Around 11 inches to be exact. I have the curly version of the 70's surf cut.  But I use more hair product.   I worried that I was going to have impulse remorse.  That I was going to come back after the haircut screaming and saying 'Two years.  I grew it out for TWO YEARS!'  But I don't.  I love that I don't have to move it when I lay down.  I love that its not touching my neck in that creepy way that makes me think I am being followed.  I love that I no longer need to carry rubber band around my wrist everywear I go.  God bless my hairdresser for not making me get in between length hair to make sure I was ready.   I think I look saucy.    Alysse is a saint.  She took me under her shopping wing and helped me find black pants.  I am not a good shopper, but she is a great shopper who guided me through the scariest parts of Union Square with an authoritative aplomb that I am envious of.  I had been bitching that I was trying on all these pants and they all made me look like that roll of cookie dough before you unwrap it to make tasty cookies.   I bought two pairs of black pants and a lovely grey dress shirt all under her watchful gaze.  The great thing about Alysse is that while I will simply buy pants to be able to get the hell out of the store, Alysse will not buy anything that doesn't look great on her.  Think about that for a minute.  How many things have you bought simply because they seemed good conceptually?  Or you saw them on someone else and they looked great?  It took me a long time to get my head around the basic principle that everything looks great in a size two and that I need to see it in my size.     We even got to look at the  dept store windows and titter at all the ponchos. I pooped out after a few hours, but she just walked me to BART and then went back into the fray.    I might be almost ready to go back to school.  I just want to find a new lunchbox to go with my back-to-school clothes and I suppose I'm ready.