The prom on Friday was a lot better than I though it was going to be. Me and Katie sorted out 'the issue' in the limo I hope. We talked a few things through, and I think she's coming round. Me and Katie went in together, linked arms. She was still my date despite everything that had happened. We went in and I was lucky enough to get a table with the girls just as it was about to fill up. Lloyd on the other hand wasn't. I was quite happy about this even though it sounds really selfish. I little way into the night Lucy came up to me and we had a brief little chat. It seems that pretty much everyone in the year knows about me now. She was really nice about it and we had a couple of dances together which was great. I really felt comfortable with her. We did some pretty steamy stuff as Gemma pointed out later. Lucy said she really fancied me and though I was handsome. I don't know how true that is but it made me happy. I bonded quite well with Laura B as well. She was smokeing and she gave me a few puffs, a 'drag' I beileve it's called. The first time made my cough, but after that I though it wasquite good actually, I never though it would be like that. Katie was a bit disgusted that I would do such a thing, but if you don't try new stuff you'll never know. I'm kinda looking forward and dreading tommorrow. I don't know what it's going to be like. I imagine everyone will be asking whether it's true or not and I'm sure there will be a few comments, but with the support from my friends I think I can get through it. I really need to tell my parents today because I'm sure Richard and Tori will find out soon enough, and it'll be better coming form me. I've written a letter actually and I might leave it for them (well, mum) to read while I'm at school tommorrow. I guess it depends whether the right moment comes along today or not. Yesterday, we were in Chelmsford, and I bought myself a new bag, and a bracelet - both Ben Sherman. I'm quite looking forward to showing them off tommorrow at school.