Sometimes, you wonder about the things you've lost and the things you've gained and the things you're not certain you have. And in those times, if you're lucky, you'll realize that you have all that you'll need, even if only for that moment. Most of the time however, fear creeps up with sure-footed grace, moving to the corners of a mind inclined to doubt because of its humanity. And i guess, i'm not very lucky today. Is it really worth being strong, and being proud if the price it demands are insecurities that cannot be assuaged by the light of consolation? and still, how could i not be strong or proud, when too many times, vulnerability was met with nothing but rejection or disdain? times like these, i feel like i’m playing a game where i must win, not because i want to, but because losing is out of the question. But i can’t help but wish that it wasn’t a game. That somehow, i still had the innocence of one who wasn’t left broken far too much for far too long. In an ideal world, things would be much simpler. It would be black and white. You’d want what you have, hope for more and actually have faith that you’ll get it and poetry would not be wasted. But its not an ideal world, it’s the real world. And in the one i’m currently moving in, risks have to be taken. Real risks. Real consequences. I wonder if i have the courage to actually do the jump one more time. For the sake of love, passion, beauty and all the things we’ve heard about, felt at one time or the other but, for most of the people around me, have not been able to keep. Or should i just continue with the pretense, with the safe choices, with the proud decisions that will keep my precious fears close to me, like the chains and bonds that they have become but at least, i am without pain. Soon, another hard decision will have to be made. And it is these decisions, that moment between forever and goodbye that will test the real strength of character a person has. But for now, i shall dwell in my cowardice and keep my insecurities closer to my heart than the dreams i want to fulfill. Brave are only the few, and only for a few moments. My moment has yet to come.