I really hate the fucking mall.  After an enjoyable time at the barber shop it was time or the arduous task of buying clothes.  Let me tell you, the last time I went clothes shopping there was a democrat in the white house.  The reason for this is that I dress rather plainly.  A typical outfit for me consists of a pair of jeans, a black ort white t-shirt, and a motorcycle jacket and boots.  I find this to be a timeless set of attire as I prophesize that when we eventually populate the moon that you’ll see similarly dressed men in a bar drinking their moonbeers.    The worst thing about having to go to the department store is the sales vultures lurking in every corner.  Between them and the perfume snipers at the entrance, you’re ready to eviscerate the next fake smile clad fuckstick you se on the 3.5 mile journey to the men’s section.    Browsing the designer men’s department, I’m pressed to find that wouldn’t make me look like an extra from a Volkswagen commercial.  I finally decide on a gray DKNY shirt and some DKNY jeans.  The same thing I typically wear just more expensive.  I go to the register and a woman with a nametag asks if she can help me.  I tell her I’d like to buy these and she says “Oh I’m sorry, I don’t work here.”  I almost slap her.  I get to the only other register in sight and some strollerjockey is applying for a goddamned store credit card.  Almost twenty minutes later I get run up and can’t help thinking of all the booze I could have bought with that hundred bucks.  Tonight is going to be wild.  Our hockey team has a playoff game which means a sold out arena and hundreds of hockey nazis needing drinks.  By the time I get there the employees are hunkering down like their expecting a Hun invasion.  It was then that I saw her, the new girl Jessica.  She had eyes that made me forget she had breasts.  Lips so perfect that I wanted to rip them off her face, shove them in my pocket, and run out the door.  Damn you God.  Damn you to H E double hockey sticks hell.  How the hell am I supposed to get up every morning, eat my cornflakes, go to work, get drunk, or do anything anymore knowing I’ll never have sex with her in a kazillion years.  I couldn’t score with this chick with a box van and a bottle of chloroform.    A couple of Chinese guys pull up to the bar.  Now listen, I don’t have anything against Orientals or Slope-Americans  or whatever you’re supposed to call them these days.  Hell, they make great women and motorcycles.  Not to mention they have tiny tallywhackers which makes their women turn to greener pastures and as a result of inadequacy their motorcycles are shit hot fast.  What bugs me is that the only thing more annoying than being a customer when the help doesn’t speak English is when you’re the help and the customer doesn’t speak English.  The one who speaks the more English of the two, asks for what sounds like permission to “Screw Pam Anderson”.  I tell him to go for it and to give her a rogering for me while he’s at it.  He repeats himself several times and a game of charades ensues until I decipher his gesticulating to mean he wants two Sam Adams’.  Another thing I hate about these foreign fucknuts is that they don’t tip.  Europeans are the worst.  Many of you may not know this but America is one of the few countries where tipping is the custom.  You see in most places they don’t pay the service industry the slave wages they do here and as a result they can make a living no matter how dead the establishment or how stingy the customer.  Speaking of tips, I’m in dire need of some.  In all my running around this afternoon I didn’t make it to the bank to cash my paycheck.  You see I don’t have an ATM or a credit card.  I literally keep my entire life savings in my sock drawer with a loaded pistol.  Right about now this figure amounts to about $11.50, not nearly enough to take a lady out on the town.  I detest when I get desperate like this because I end up turning into the field negro for my customers monetary drippings.  “Yessuh, I’s be getsin yo rumn’ coke righ quickly suh.  Oh sorry suh! I shouldsa been knowin yous wantin the Bacardi even thows you didzn’t ask fuh it.  I shows am sorry suh.”  My next customer is some middle aged Yentl wearing enough jewelry to make Mr. T pity hisself.  She orders a cosmo and leans over the bar taking me step by step through the arduous process.    Cosmopolitan  ½ oz Cointreau 1 oz Vodka 1 oz Lime Juice Splash Cranberry Juice Mix and toss in Sarah Jessica Parker wannabe’s face.  Obviously this waste of a reproductive system knows my job better than I do.  I mean cmon, I don’t go to where she works and tell her how to suck a dick.  That rock on her finger is proof positive that she’s got it down to a science.    About this time the place is filling up and the inevitable mental pain begins to set in.  My next customer is a lost and disheveled looking young man wearing a Lou Reed shirt.  I like him already.  Still standing he rests against the bar and orders a shot of Cuervo.  This guy is obviously in at least as much pain as I am so I pour two shots, raise my glass, and tell him cheers, this ones on me.  He left a fiver on the bar and gave me the thumbs up on his way out.    The next guy to pull up had obviously had a few already and, clad in his Hugo Boss suit, orders a Grey Goose and tonic.  I make the drink and slide it down the bar and ask if he wants to start a tab.  Dipshit slides it back, hitting an astray and knocks the drink over and says “This time put some liquor in it.”  I retrieve another glass and this time pour the thing two thirds full of Vodka and add just a splash of tonic.  I it back over to where he’s sitting, drink the entire thing in one gulp and say “If you want your salad tossed go to Chilly’s, get the fuck out of my bar.”  He tells me he wants to see the manager.  I tell him I am the manager.  Carrie is cocktailing at a table nearby and hears the exchange and butts in to ask me something.  “Hey do you think I could get off a little early tonight?  I have a test tomorrow.”  I reply “No goddamnit.  That’s the third time this week.”  I then cross my arms and look back at the Ben Affleck stand in.  He leaves his seat and makes a b-line for the door.  Carrie and I have an arrangement where if someone wants to speak to a manager she get’s me and if someone questions my claim to be the manager she backs me up.  It’s yet to backfire.  The next pair I get at the bar is a couple of lesbians, one pregnant, making kissy face and holding hands.  Now these weren’t you run of the mill bull dykes that look like Jared from the subway commercials.  These were the kind of carpet munchers you might see on Skinamax or Swank.  Seeing these homettes fondle each other brought back a painful memory.  The time Katie and I had a threesome with one of the new waitresses.  Why painful you might ask?  Let me explain.  We were out after work having drinks when Katie started joking around about a threesome.  I’ve had girlfriends do this before and didn’t pay it much mind until the two of them started making out at t he bar.  This would have been the part in the movie where I turn to the camera, raise an eyebrow, and crack a smile.  They stop long enough for Katie to say we should get a drink at my place.  They spend the entire car ride home in the back seat tearing into each other like a couple of wild hyenas.  When we get to my place Katie drags us by the belts to my room where for the next four hours I look directly into the face of god.  The bad part began after they had both left and I, unable to sleep, went to my favorite coffee shop to reminisce.  At about my third sip of coffee I came to a horrifying realization.  The fact was that as of this moment, my entire life was all downhill.  Nothing would top last night.  Sure my wedding day and seeing my first child born may come close but nothing will top shagging those two.  Nothing.  I make the lesbians next round on the house.  God bless their muff huffing hearts.  A young guy sits down and addresses me by name and starts talking like we’re old pals.  I have no clue who he is.  He starts telling me about some problems he and his girlfriends are having.  Slammed with drink orders I get in the occasional “No shit” or “Damn that sucks”  as I pass by.  The game is about to start and the place starts clearing out.  When I have enough time I make it over to friendly guy and let him vent.  He asks me how I’ve been doing and I tell him just peachy.  I have neither the time nor inclination to explain myself to him.  He says how cool my job must be and asks how I got it.  I tell him a prison work release program.  He asks what I was in for and I tell him I’m not exactly sure because I black out when I drink but the cops said that the other guy may never walk again.  I then peek over each shoulder and pour myself a Jack Daniels and say “Hell of a thing huh?” and slam it.  Before long I’m able to count my drawer and go downstairs to have a drink with Katie.  We have a couple of drinks and make small talk for awhile and eventually I ask where she wants to go and she says we need to talk.  We grab a table in the back and she says that the other night was a mistake and that she’s sorry.  She asks if she sent me any mixed signals about the situation and I almost burst into a mixture of crying and laughter.  She gets up and kisses me and asks if I still want to get a drink.  I tell her I have something I need to do, grab my shit and get on my bike.  I blaze out of the parking lot, get on the highway and head east.  I don’t know where I’m going but I know I’m going there really fucking fast.