another busy weekend, to be followed by a busy week.  I love life in Indianapolis!  Friday night, we watched  urlLink the Butterfly Effect .  what a great movie!  from the cover/art:   We all have moments when we wish we could change something. Right a wrong. Correct a mistake.  Gain love - or power.  What if we really could?    what a provocative thought.  I've been noodling about this one all weekend.  I *love* movies that get me thinking.  but that's another post.  Saturday we watched movies, too - we were all interested in being as lazy as possible for the first half of the weekend.  we knew it was going to be a busy one.  Saturday night, we left Dave to fend for himself with his laundry, a book, a blanket and ESPN to go to a bachelorette party.  no complaints from him.  =)  so what do you get when you cross about 12 girls, a veil headband, leis, body glitter and drinks?  you get Claudia Lasdins (soon-to-be Ebersole)'s bachelorette party.  started off at the Hard Rock downtown - fun place to go.  most of the people there were tourists, I'm sure. because who in Indy ever really goes out and eats at the themed restaurants?  we all either cook in or eat out in great little holes-in-the-wall that we've snobbily claimed are better and better fun than places like Hard Rock or Buca's.  that's silly.  the Hard Rock was the *perfect* place for this crowd to kick off the night:  food, drinks, and free sodas (thanks mr. winking waiter!), plus all the laughing you can squeeze into two hours (we were having such loud and long laughs that another group came over to share in the jokes).  after, we went to a new piano bar downtown called  urlLink 'Howl at the Moon'  - not quite what I expected a 'piano bar' to be, and *certainly* not my normal gig, but fun nonetheless.  Sunday was relatively tame.  =)  all of the sopranos were out at the bachelorette party, so we were all slightly hoarse when it came time to sing the anthem.  it was awesome anyway - it was a tougher piece (especially for our choir) but it came out beautifully).  lunch at Ryan's as usual, then we went home.  all three of us (me, Bethany, David) crashed when we got home - took an hour and a half long nap.  =)  woke up in time for choir practice and church, then David left and we crashed again.  still recovering.  man, speaking of recovery reminds me of ailments.  and ailments reminds me of OUCH - MY LEG!!!  this exact pain (the one I'm about to describe to you) happened to me once before.  same leg and everything.  I was in the Bahamas on a  urlLink TU  Jazz Band and Sounds spring break tour.  we (a bunch of guys and me) were in the hotel's outdoor pool horsing around, dunking each other, etc.  one of the guys grabbed my leg (dude, it's throbbing just *thinking* about this!) and pulled me under the water.  well, he'd grabbed my calf muscle, but not the rest of the leg - he pulled hard enough to basically separate the muscle from the bone.  I just about drowned because it hurt so bad I couldn't move it to get above water.  so... this morning, as I'm laying in bed waking up, I stretch - you know, one of those great, full body stretches?  pointed my toes and everything.  anyway, the same thing happened to my leg!  I bit my hand *really* hard to keep from screaming...  I *still* have a mark on my skin - a whole day has passed!  if the camera at work had worked, I'd have taken a picture to post with this... post.  (hehe... work worked, post post)  now I'm all afraid to have any kind of exertion - climbing in and out of cars, walking up and down stairs - these are scary things.  I'm wiggin' because it hurt SO badly.  tomorrow night is a 'missionary shower', similar to a bridal shower (giving the missionary-to-be the things he needs to go abroad), for Nate-Dogg Becker, a dear friend from Taylor.  Wednesday, he's going to my church to do a presentation in hopes of gaining some support (prayer, financial, or other) from Woodruff Place.  Thursday morning is a stupid, horrible, crappy meeting with some clients.  Friday, David comes and we go to a rehearsal/rehearsal dinner.  =)  yay for food at  urlLink Buca's  and  urlLink my David ! wedding Saturday.  vacation next week - very full calendar until then.  so, that's my news.  those are the happenings in the life o' Tara.  I'm out - time for bed.    [Listening to:  urlLink Liszt  - Liebestr&Atilde;&fnof;&Acirc;&curren;ume, notturno for piano in A-flat major No. 3 (from  O Lieb, so lang du lieben kannst )]