I most definitely agree on both points.  1) Rosie, quit apologizing and do something about it.  Apologies are no longer needed, and in fact are getting you absolutely nowhere.  Surprisingly enough, this isn't directed toward anyone.  In fact, this is just kind of a rant.  However, I do highly suggest that people read this.  It's kind of a continuation/elaboration on Josh's post.  2) The unit SUCKS.  If you go there without a reason to be in there, you'll come out with one.  I think it'd be really funny to see any one of yall try to get into that unit- CRISIS would laugh their asses off.  Trust me, yall are nowhere near depressed, I promise- and you really shouldn't want to be.  I wouldn't wish all this on my worst enemy.  It's pain like yall will never have to go through- it's not something to take lightly.  I laugh every time one of you goes 'I'm so depressed today,' as if you know the meaning of the word.  You really don't, and fortunately for you, you probably never will.  At least I hope you won't.    But seriously, yall- come on.  The unit is no picnic- you've never been any place like it and never want to be.  This isn't some stunt for attention or whatever, and should never be used as one.  This is real- I don't think some of you get that- this is REAL.  These are our LIVES we are talking about here.  This isn't something that is going to go away. We can't just snaap our fingers and make it better- the hospital does not by any means, fix things.  We didn't just wake up one morning and say, 'hey, I think I'll be depressed and go to the hospital to get it fixed.'  It just doesn't work like that.  This isn't some broken bone that the doctors can just magically heal.  This is something that we might actually not get over.  I hope to God that we will because I'm not sure how much more of this I can take.  Point is, there is no guarantee that everything is going to be all hunky dory.  This is something that takes work- it's harder than anything I've ever had to do in my entire life.  We didn't come out of the hospital with all of our problems fixed, as some of you seem to think.  We're not 'back to normal.'  This is one of those things that changes your life, for better or for worse, but it has happened and we have to deal with that.  I'm not saying yall don't have problems- you do- but their not things that make you 'depressed'.  Just because you are sad or disappointed for a couple of days does not make you depressed.  Depression is something we will never be able to explain to you because you haven't been there.    I'm sorry if that makes you feel left out or on the outside or whatever.  We're the ones on the outside here, and I promise you don't want to and probably can't join us.  We appreciate your friendship and support, but we can't make you a big part of this, even if we wanted to.  There are some things that truly are beyond comprehension.  I really think this is the problem here- all of a sudden, we're in a whole different world from yall, and it's impossible for yall to join us here, try as you might.  You can't make yourself depressed, and even if you could, I wouldn't suggest it.  Even if we were to miraculously get better right now, we still wouldn't be able to rejoin your world, if for no other reason than we have experienced the other world.  Really, I am sorry that we've left yall in this position, but it's not something we would have ever chosen for ourselves.  But it has been chosen for us.  Unfortunately, we can no longer lean on yall as much as we used to, by choice or not, so we're having to make up for it by leaning on each other.  Yall are still our best friends, but you just have to understand- you can't always be there.  And Josh, I loved the British spelling.  Nice touch.