I know in a previous post I protected parents, almost even taking their side, well here's my little change of mind. Parents don't know anything. They think they know you soooo well, maybe even to the point where they can read emotions off your face. They can't. Parents know nothing about us. And when I go upstairs after arguing with Nicole about Kelli, like I just did a few minutes ago, and they want me to tell them what's wrong. Yeah, how about you shut the fuck up!? I don't have to tell you what's wrong  all  the time.  Here's the situation with Nicole and Kelli. Kelli and Nicole don't like each other. At all. Well Kelli is with Jeff, who's a good friend of mine, and Kelli asked Nicole if she wanted to do something sometime. Like all four of us, not just the two girls. And Nicole was like yeah, sure, and was willing to like....drop their arguement and maybe even talk. Kelli didn't! She just said how much she still hat- OOPS! 'dislikes' Nicole. So this morning, Kelli is yelling at me for the usual stuff: me never talking to her, me not knowing her anymore, blah blah blah blah blah. Kelli just ASSUMES something. She gets an idea and she just fuckin runs. Whether the idea is right or wrong, she is sticking to it. I don't know if I'll be talking to her much for a while. She's just so STRESSFUL and such a huge burden to me, yet she still calls me her 'best friend', which puts her under that category of 'Don't me on a LEVEL of friends'.  Me and Nicole have been fighting about her way too much lately. Back in January/February, the first time me and Nicole went out, we broke up because of an arguement aobut Kelli. It was a bad break-up. A really really bad one.  But it's not gonna happen again. I've made a promise to Nicole, and a promise to myself, not to let anything--or anyone--break us up like that again. Nicole and Kelli settled it. They both decided they don't wanna be friends, and they don't wanna talk. There is no more reason for me and Nikki to fight about it anymore.  You see...some of my good friends, quote me here: SOME, not all, are girls. This doesn't go over too well with Nikki. I mean, it's reasonable, right? Like some of my friends that are girls are friends with her. And we got this agreement that I can't hang out alone with certain girls and stuff like that. But whenever other girls come up in the conversation with Nikki, she gets so...different. She just completely changes, and I feel like I don't know her anymore. Like she'll be in the best mood, and if I tell her someone wants to hang out with me, she'll be like 'oh, ill let you go so you can be with your PRECIOUS kelli' or something like that, even before I can tell Nikki I don't wanna hang out with whoever asked me.  Don't get me wrong. This doesn't mean me and Nikki are gonna break up or anything. There's no way in Hell I'd ever get rid of her, unless she cheated on me....I love her so much. I love her more than anything in the world. If I lost her, it would honestly kill me. I know she trusts me, she tells me she does, and she wouldn't lie to me. I just wish I could prove to her that I'll be faithful...and loyal...forever....