Friday I woke up went to weights with Steph, whahahha, so sore, like seriously its Sunday now and I can barely dress myself.  Anyway after weights Dorothy Steph and I went downtown, got coffee, visited Britt and laughed our asses off, because were dumb.  Went home then 20 minutes later Dorothy came back over, we sat around for a while then took showers, respectively, and got ready just for the hell of it. Which worked out because we were suppose to meet people for lunch. So we did, but went to Old Navy instead, where I bought more shit I don’t need. Seriously I have a problem, someone needs to help me, so if we ever go shopping and I am buying a purse or a pair of shoes, rip it out of my hands and ask me if I have seen the state of my closet recently, okay…  By now Maddy had joined us too, so we went back to my house played Uno and then everyone left.  I did some laundry and got ready for soccer. The car ride up to Tacoma was quite humorous. And the game was really fun. I now remember why I like soccer so much. The intensity was amazing, despite the 1-0 loss, oh well, I missed a wide open goal shot which could have tied it, so I felt like a dumb ass but yeah. Got home around 10 and slept and slept and slept.  Around 2 Steph picked me up and headed again up to soccer in Tacoma. OH MY GOD WE ALMOST DIED!!! Innocently enough were driving on 1-5 in the left lane, when we see this truck with a trailer fishtailing in their right most lane, and then all of a sudden the truck is perpendicular to us, stretched across all 5 lanes of traffic, were about 2 feet away from hitting them. It was silent for the longest time until somebody giggled, “I wonder how our team would have done without 5 of the starters?”  The game was lame, because we should have won, tied 2-2, and I made up for yesterdays almost goal squabble with one this game, afterwards we quickly got food and headed back to the field to play another game. We ended up winning, thanks to an awesome goal from Erica (Katie’s little sister) who was quest-ing with us. We missed playoffs by points, which makes me bitter, because we probably would have been going if I had made that first goal… but third is just fine and this way we don’t have to go back up to Tacoma today…    Tic'Tock:   153  Stylin':  pink pj pants and a tank top  Hair:  up  Eating:   nothing  Drinking: nothing  listening:  nothing  Chatting:  no one  Stalk Me:  aim: Gorjessgirl4  PS. this is luckly post number 100, isnt that crazy, i have written 100 of these, wow, i am a loser