Today...   I miss my sister terribly - it just seems strange not to have her hanging around, irritating me (just joking...). Even though it was only for a week, she really made her presence felt, and I mean that in a good way. Just doing the scrapbook for our trtip to Tasmania brings fond memories of a time past recently - last week in fact.  Maybe it's just the thought that I won't see her for quite a while - with her going to Bristol in Sept/Oct and all. She represented, on a deeper level, a link to my family back home. Oh how I miss them all.  Tomorrow is the start of a new term. How did the holidays fly by so quickly? I can honestly say it has been an eventful break, what with all the travelling I've done, and the things I've seen. Still no luck with the job hunt though. Favour Lord, Favour!!  There's still so much to do and see. This semester promises to be a challenging one, with me taking two Film subjects (equating to two 3000 word essays in the middle of the semester! ), hopefully holding fort with a job, and I haven't gotten round to taking those driving lessons I've been saving up for (and which money I have technically spent already on ordinary expenses...). I'm also planning to help out with the Children's Ministry in church, and am also taking an Alpha course, which is sorta a foundation studies thing  - good 'coz it's like going back to the basics of the Bible. Wow - so many things to accomplish - grace needed here!  Well, Shawn's back, which means I see even less of EG 'coz his comp. and best bud are both at Jon's place (Shawn's Jon's new roomie). Woopadeedoo... Everyone always kids that the 2 of 'em are like lovers! (erm, EG and Shawn, not EG and his comp., although now that I think about it, the PC always seems to hum a little when EG's around...) Anyways, the point is, in this little love triangle, I'm the 'concubine' you see. Unless you go by EG's version, which is that I'm the 'wife', the one he's married to, while Shawn's the 'mistress', the one who he really wants to be with. Haha...whatever...  No lah, it's good that he hangs out with his buddy - gives me a lil' space, a lil' of my time you know? So however much I whine that I'll never see as much of EG now that Shawn's back, I'm pretty ok about it, plus I'm glad Shawnie's back too. Miss his sudden rants about society's faults and the various places in Melbourne which are 'a bloody rip-off!!'  Welcome back Shawn.