So yesterday wasn't very eventful. I went to the grocery store after work and I only got 4 items: eggs, brownie mix, Doritos Guacamole chips, and a pepsi. Healthy dinner, eh? I made the brownies and took some over for Eric, since they are his favorites. We watched a new dating reality show called outback jack. Those things are always so dumb. I made comments through the whole show, which I'm sure was totally annoying for Eric. How can people think they are in love with someone they've only known a few weeks? Especially if those few weeks don't consist of any reality and it is completely staged? I just don't get it. You have to be as dumb as rocks to believe you are able to really get to know someone while shooting a TV show.  I left Eric's at around 8 because the mailman and I had planned to 'hang out.' Just as I got home a huge rain storm broke. It was torrential, and the hail was gnarly. Once again I was thankful for covered parking. I watched the storm from my big bedroom window. It was awesome.  The mailman didn't call me until 8:45, and didn't come over until 9:30. Lame.  We met up with Sarah and Colin at Bova's Frozen Custard in Boulder. The flavor of the day was Pralines and Cream, which is my absolute fave! We walked around the hill for a while. It was strange. Sarah and I walked in front talking and the mailman and Colin walked behind us talking.  After custard, we drove back to my house and sat around talking until 2:30 in the morning. It was kind of lame because he kept telling me the same stories that he's already told me. Another exciting part of the convo was when we talked about his ex-girlfriends. Actually, this is his favorite topic to talk about. Annoying.  I told him I was disappointed because he didn't meet my parents this weekend and he said he was sorry he didn't get to meet them. Whatever, obviously not sorry enough to have tried to meet them.  When he left I said goodbye because since I'm leaving Friday for my family vacation and he's leave Sunday for a week at Lake Powell, I probably won't get to see him again for a while. After Lake Powell he is either going straight back to BYU, or he'll come back to Colorado to go on a backpacking trip with his family. Either way, I probably won't get to spend the evening alone with him again. As we were saying goodbye he said that he had something for me still, so it wasn't the last, real goodbye. I said 'cool' but in my mind I thought, 'yeah, right.'  Anwyay, tonight is girls night and we're all going to see princess diary 2. Looks like the movie will be retarded, but it will be fun to be out with all the girls. Amy (my roommate) might even come because Erik (her fiance) started football camp this week so now she has ample spare time. That is freakin AWESOME! I get my best friend back! Hooray!