I sat in my office this morning brooding over my life as of late. My car, the only one we have, broke down two weeks ago. It was the latest in an incredibly long string of horrendous luck my wife and I have had lately. It appeared to be the radiator at first. I mean the radiator had a big swell with a nice spraying leak. So a friend of mine, Kevin, offered to help me fix the damn thing. Unfortunately, as many of you know, car parts like a radiator are prohibitively expensive. And forget about getting it professionally done. The keyword there is 'professional', and they get  paid , but not by me. So one beautiful morning, while I was supposed to be at work, we ripped the rusted and forlorn looking thing out of the front of my car and off we skipped to the junkyard.       Lo and behold, the junkyard had the radiator I needed! I jumped with joy and giggled, on the inside. I mean these are some burly guys here. This may well be the twenty-first century, but jumping and giggling with a little golf clap could still get you a world class ass whippin' in some places. Home we went to install my very nice looking radiator. Yah, it...didn't fucking work. Either something else was wrong or the radiator we got was bad. Woo hoo! I love it when plans fall apart like a well set up building demolition. So there I was, and am, with no car to drive to that magical place I like to call hell, but is actually referred to as 'work' by my colleagues and supervisor.      Which brings me to the point. Sort of anyway. Why is all this happening now, and most importantly why does it get me down? I've been much poorer than this in my life and still been happy. I see janitors and Wal-Mart slaves that all seem to be happy with their lot in life. What makes me different? Then I had an epiphany. I wasn't really doing anything I loved. My life at home is good. I have a great wife and four very cool fun kitties. I enjoy being home, like most people I suppose. Its work that I hate. Not just work in general, though. I hate  my job . I had always wanted to be a writer, but I chose to go to school for something that would make me some money, I have to chuckle a little here since I make dick. This is generating a ton of  low level stress which in turn is making it hard for me to enjoy anything.      Isn't this grand, I've become Dr. fucking Phil. I know what's wrong, but now comes the big question. How do I fix it? While I make dick for my job what I  do  make is more than I can make at any lower level job, therefore I'm stuck. Oh, well, fuck it. I've decided to not worry about it so fucking much. I guess I'll just try to write while driving my friend's car back and forth to hell. They say every dog has his day. Too bad I'm not a dog.      'Till next time..., goodbye.