i received this email last night:   Ann Coulter reportedly objects to having her religion singled out as unacceptable for display of religious icon, and you offer the following:  'A school might want to, oh say, prevent any possiblity of someone bringing up a religious lawsuit by precluding ALL RELIGIOUS COMMENTS within the confines of the school? might that seem reasonable, huh?'  Reasonable?  I can see the line of thinking,  but you however, have failed to even read what you wrote.  There's the assertion that 'ALL RELIGIOUS COMMENTS' being removed from schools is a legal protection for the schools. But ALL were not removed. Just hers. Others, according to your own quotation, were allowed.  Which is more than an interesting event at the very least, and certainly significant for the New York political and cultural environments.   And you give credibility to Ms. Coulter's point about her Faith's Founder being unusually hated.  While you cite that New York reportedly allowed Jewish and Islamic displays, 'violating' that revered legal protection, there is not a murmur of concern regarding that those breaches which DID occur. But look at all the vociferous prattle about Ms. Coulter's desire to be given equal standing, which did not occur!  Such anger about a non-event,  while real events which you assert would be a legal threat to the schools, go by with no comment.  If the situation were reversed and Islamic displays were forbidden but Christian ones allowed, you do not come across as someone who would brush it off as 'ISOLATED incidents of  discrimination' and simply 'unfortunate'. But for HER, well that's fine for her ilk, right?  Clearly Ms. Coulter's voicing objection at second rate treatment inspires a hypocritical, and spiteful response, demonstrated by the absent logic and hate-speak that surrounds the commentary about Coulter's complaint.  Examine your heart. Your hate is affecting your mind and robbing you of clarity.  The real point that you appear to wish to make here is to clarify and defend the Islamic heart.   Coulter accepts that the terrorists of the Tower acted for Islam and therefore, their work stands as a memorial to Islam, desired or not. Hard ideas, but she is not on thin ice. Like The Crusaders, they did claim to die for their god, whether the Islamic faithful acknowledge and embrace them, or not. They were not alone in their glee that thousands of innocents died that morning.  Sadly, a rational response to this statement is needed, but denunciations of their actions from the Islamic community are not  in ready supply. Perhaps the media is to blame. Post 9-11, with a few exceptions, the Islamic storylines were essentially, 'Don't hate us because they did that.'  Given the volume of 'don't hate us' stories so sympathetically given by the media, it is hard to imagine that the  press censored Islamics speaking out against the notion of the terrorists as representatives of their faith. It would have supported the press angle of non-discrimination.  But here, given the opportunity to reinforce a distance between irrational hate and Islam, you opt instead to slam Coulter's faith more than defend Islam and in a most offensive, ungodly manner. I stake my life upon the fact that if Ann flew a plane into a Saudi mall and killed innocents in the name of Jesus, Christians would denounce her repeatedly, publically and unequivocally, and that their chief concern would not be to be fearful that Islamics would hate them for her act.   Your attacks on her valid points reguarding discrimination would rightfully send faithful Islamics distancing themselves from you, as they ought also to distance themselves from their 'fellow' believers who killed themselves at the Towers that day. Just as those madmen have done nothing for Islam, so has this diatribe.  Her group was discriminated against. In this country, that's a basic no-no.  Whether you like them 2000 years from now,  or not.   in response, I shall mock the person (whom i shall affectionaly refer to as Ditto herein) with a delightful blend of actual analsis and humorous Ad Homenim attacks.  Here we go:  1) Coulter does not want equal protection.  show me where she does.  Her concern is that the christianity which she takes as dogma isn't being given preferential treatment over the 'lesser' faiths.  I decry THAT as hypocrasy--that is what makes Coulter a hemorrhodial breach in the fabric of intellectualism.  The schools involved refused to teach any religion as doctrine, but rather wished to teach that which the students do not know: the tennents of Islam, Judism et. al.  both of which are rich traditions in their own right.  people know Christianity, they don't know about other cultures.  teaching THOSE is important, especially given your obvious concern about 'hate speech.'  but the school does not teach that 'Allah is God,' or even 'Jesus was not.'  what the school does is teach about islam, not preach islam.  no problem with that from me.  2)  Christ, unusually hated?  what? Ditto, you are silly.   Jews are unusally hated, Muslims are unusually hated, Blacks and Hispanics are unusually hated.  Christians?  Also, Coulter Absurdtion (combination of the words absurd and assertion) that christ's popularity has any relation to his divinity is the type of stupidity i would expect from someone with less than a third grade education, and whose family tree resembles the one of the kid on the stoop from deliverance.  3)  Clearly Ms. Coulter's voicing objection at second rate treatment inspires a hypocritical, and spiteful response, demonstrated by the absent logic and hate-speak that surrounds the commentary about Coulter's complaint.  Examine your heart. Your hate is affecting your mind and robbing you of clarity.    You say i am 'hate filled,' and I am 'robbed of clarity by my unclear heart.'  i say Coulter is a craptacular waste of cells, better suited for ameobic dysentery than for political commentary.  both are ad homenim attacks.  mine are funny.  4) Ditto, you are right that my main point is about the fact that the average muslim, in America or abroad, isn't a terrorist, but a decent hardworking person that wants nothing more but to live his/her life free from being bombed or starved because people who they have never heard of decided to go to war.   but you disagree, seemingly to go along with Coulter's rectal wart fluid, that says that ALL OF ISLAM SHOULD BE BLAMED FOR THE ACTIONS OF A FEW.  Do you really want that as a principle?  Should I hold you accountable for everything done by the actions of your forbears?  Regretably, i know little of you, so i cannot make more infuriating racial/ethnic slurs about you here, but rest assured that every ethnic group has done some really bad shit to another ethnic group.   5) Given the tendancy of Baby-Bush administration to 'bomb first, ask questions later,' It seems quite reasonable to me for the islamic community around the world to say, 'don't hate us.'  inevitably, someone was going to be bombed for the actions of 9-11, and perhaps rightfully so, but the muslims didn't know who.  seems safe to say soothing things to the nuclear weapon wielding barbarians at your gate.  6) yes, i slam Coulter's faith.  I slam every faith.  I am an equal opportunity slammer--- also known as an Asshole.   nothing wrong with that.  I revel in my assholic nature, it gives me strength to deal with the 10-pounds-of-bullshit-in-a-5-pound-bag that is the political landscape of America.   I am jaded and cynical.  but i am also funny. I believe that humor is the only thin blue collar line seperating our society from a complete fuck-you anarchy.  we've given up on civilty, so be it.  I shall take sass to the sassless.  Does that make me ungodly?  well, uncivil, but ungodly?  as for muslims distancing themselves from me?  meh, i call it like i see it.  if that pisses off some people, so be it.  In fact, the more people who I piss off, the better.    7) I stake my life upon the fact that if Ann flew a plane into a Saudi mall and killed innocents in the name of Jesus, Christians would denounce her repeatedly, publically and unequivocally, and that their chief concern would not be to be fearful that Islamics would hate them for her act.    all this statement proves is that Coulter does not have a monopoly on mere assertion. Saying 'i stake my life on the fact . . ' is only hyperboleic language, with no real backing.     Further, the fear of reprisals from angry victims is, in fact, a real concern--- look at Israel and the Palestinians.  when Palestinians attack Israel, the Israeli's strike back, hard and swift, and don't always get the right people.  Palenstinians return fire, often in the form of suicide bombings-- thus injuring more innocents.  Again, it seems quite reasonable and rational to say, 'i was not part of the group responsible for X, so don't bomb me when you counterattack.'  see that last paragraph, Ditto?  that's what we like to call analysis.  Learn it, love it, use it.   what has my 'diatribe,' as you call it accomplished?  well, probably not much.  but i never went into the 'blogging' industry to do much either.  perhaps it made me feel better to mock someone as haltingly and galactically stupid as Coulter.  perhaps i may have contributed in some small way to the general din of the internet.  perhaps I have done nothing at all.  but hey, Blogger's a free service so I shall continue to list my 'diatribes,' without any thought to the way it might affect anyone else.  such is my right.   you may not agree with my particular blend of humor, so don't read my blog.  such is your right.