haven't been online for like ages... i feel lost... yet the urge to go online is slowly losing its grasp on me... this always happens... i go in like almost everyday for like months and then i just withdraw... on and off... i guess its the social factor of the net. i go on to connect with ppl... ppl i'm close to, those i know and those i might or soon will... nowadays there is so lil ppl i talk to online... funny way of interacting for an introvert... or maybe not...  i still have a fucking cold and sore throat that has lasted for the past 2 weeks... pushing off recording because of it, don't wanna waste time and money recording sounding like a dead frog...   news flash!! a certain person who accused me of stealing has finally called up and apologized... i asked why now? what made u say sorry after what u did? the person answered that he/she appreciates our friendship. *smile* really? told the person to go post it on my blog instead. haven't heard from that person since.   having this amalgamation of emotions nowadays... depressed, happy, lonely, sad, excited, hyped up, melancholy, indignant, resigned, blur, lost, content, ignored, love, kinky, hatred, disbelief... i know some of em don't really qualify as emotions but they seem to describe most of what i have felt the past 2-3 weeks... wish i wasn't this volatile... thankfully my mood swings are under the skin and not noticed by most... i think my fav emotion is melancholy...  i'm a believer of karma. so firm that it scares me sometimes... i believe if i do something wrong to someone then something bad will happen to me... equivalent or worse... i've had too much shit happen to me in the past that the fear is real and right in front of me. i am unable to be evil, or even bad, unless it's retribution. even then i try to move away from any direct evilness... and yet ppl close to me don't seem to know that... *sigh*... let see what else you don't know bout me...   top 5 things u might not know about me  [in random order] :  5:  i don't eat any fast food, ask me why only if you  really  wanna know...  4:  i cannot, i repeat, cannot sing. i rap...  3:  i like britney spears... yes really, even her music...  2:  i'm not that smart, at all, just streetwise...  1:  i can't pronounce the letter 'r'...  this 'everytime' by britney is really growing on me... whats with this song? on a lighter note, a friend has got a job starting tomorrow, now he's back on track i guess its my turn. and to think that he was on the verge of giving up all his dreams... think i'm approaching that soon... can't be too far over the horizon this one... later...