yesterday, i woke up to the sound of rain. (teka, kanta yun ng Skid Row ah...) still lying in bed, i thought to my self,  sana 'wag ulanin ang F&ecirc;te mamya.    1130AM  under cloudy skies,  urlLink echo  and i hurriedly shoved off to fetch jazz and head to eastwood to beat my 200PM hosting calltime and boldstar's 220PM performance call time.   12:30PM  got to jazz's house in the heart o' San Juan at only to find that he had left to bring a few things to his apartment. so we ended up just fetching jazz's bass guitar (he would be playing for boldstar in the afternoon show of the F&ecirc;te Rock stage). after getting lost in San Juan because i was an efficient navigator, we proceeded to eastwood via ortigas.   1:45PM  so far so good. with boldstar's car pass, echo and are the first to park our car at the artists' designated parking area. we head to via mare (F&ecirc;te headquarters) to get our artist id's and food/drink stubs. no luck.   2:00PM-ish  we grab a late lunch at 7-11. it's humid as hell.  hintay. (familiar ba 'to?)   3:00PM-ish  dahil wala pa si jazz tsaka si justin, echo, on jazz's request, asks me to play bass for boldstar's soundcheck. since we already had jazz's bass guitar, i gladly oblige :) we soundchecked  accident prone ,  bio  and  i love you . saya! if i do say so myself, i can play bass adequately. ;)  after soundcheck, (say it with me) hintay. jugs and jazz arrive later on.   4:00PM onwards  with a smattering of people in the audience, jazz, jugs and i hit the stage to start the rock stage pre-show. monsterbot christens the F&ecirc;te rock stage. francis brew (kiko) joins us in hosting the show. most of the bands that played were great. i particularly enjoyed the performances by grass, southern grass, hellbender, ciudad, monsterbot, boldstar, kjwan, happy meals, and greyhoundz. because of stage manager ene and staff's efficiency, the rock show runs like clockwork.   8:45PM  F&ecirc;te opening ceremonies. hosting duties are over. woohoo! i'm all amped up cos of the great rock performances, and am ready to perform myself. by this time, umambon na nang makailang beses pero mahihina't mabibilis lang.  the audience area is packed to overflowing. in the moshpit, there are punks with crazy foot-high mohawks, two guys with -- get this -- gas masks and a guy with a puppet (?!) may times na kinailangan namin silang sabihan na wag magsakitan habang nagmo-mosh kasi naging rowdy na sila lalo na sa sets ng chicosci tsaka 'houndz.  beer, yes. bottles, no.  at one point, habang sinasabihan namin sila, the moshpit clears a bit and a guy lays down in the middle, and smokes a joint! labo, mhen.   9:00PM  the rock stage main show gets under way with the dawn. solid din ng set nila! thank goodness still no rain.   10:30PM  while twisted halo rips up the stage, trici asks us to stand by for our set. andox tunes up the guitars, and we get ready.   10:40PM  6cyclemind hit the stage. with guitars in hand, we go to the performers' holding area. excited na 'ko, tututgtog na and itchyworms! sa wakas! in the middle of 6cyclemind's third song the rain suddenly pours. it's as if someone opens up a great faucet in the sky. the raindrops are big fat and juicy, just like in Neo and Agent Smith's final match-up in  Matrix Revolutions . i'm still hopeful that we'll be able to play cos ene and the RSL (sound system) guys let 6cyclemind finish their song.  to shelter themselves from the rain, a few members of the audience hurriedly clamber over the tarp that separates the holding area from the audience. yung iba, sumuot dun sa man-high passageway sa ilalim ng stage. yung mga kasama namin sa holding area, they start shouting  itchyworms na!  kakataba ng puso :) hehe, may fans pala kami ;)  finally, as if to end the anguish, ene comes down to the holding area to announce that the show has been cancelled because the equipment and the circuit breaker have gotten wet. bummer.  we wait a few more minutes for the rain to let up before hastily packing our things. tech-guy andox mistakenly puts jugs's bag, which contains jugs's cellphone, parking card, wallet and driver's license, in the trunk of kelvin's car. kelvin has sped off by now. jugs and i make frantic phonecalls to CDy and jenny. jugs tells CDy to meet him at mcdonald's. jenny tells us she's at mcdonald's and kelvin is meeting her there. jugs runs off to mcdonald's.  while echo fetches the unsold boldstar cd's at macau, i wait in big red. cold and more than a bit damp, echo and i finally head home. on the way out from the eastwood parking lot, we drop off  urlLink emma  in front of mcdonald's.   11:30  traffic outside eastwood is heavy but moving, so the ordeal lasts only about twenty minutes. habang nakasakay, tinamaan na ako ng pagod.   12:15  we get home. gusto ko pa sanang i-post kaagad dito yung nangyari, pero talagang lomi na 'ko. after a midnight snack, i go up to my sweet bed and pillows and conk out. zzzzzz...  sayang. this was our third year to be at the F&ecirc;te de la Musique, and our second to host the rock stage. di na nga nakatugtog, di pa nakapag-ikot. (last year, nakapunta pa ako sa venue ng jazz so nakapanood pa ako ng one or two jazz groups.) at least the hosting was fun. disappointment din na hindi nakatugtog ang Nuncy Spungen -- they had come all the way from Cagayan de Oro. they were great at our Last Full Show gig this past friday, though. the bands that  did  get to play were awesome. with so many excellent rock acts, how can pinoy rock be dead?  >>>  nga pala, my co-host francis brew told me yesterday na meron palang silang gamit na amps sa linkin park concert. nakatago lang sa likod nung risers behind some cloth. so much for my sonic abstraction theory.