Well... today's been a long day. We had to drive home from Indiana. I guess I'm gonna sort of have to be choosy what I write about because I could really take up a lot of time and space and I just don't have enough energy.     First off I have to say that camp was awesome and even better than I could have expected. God's been doing so much stuff in my life lately and it's just awesome. I've sort of turned over a new leaf I guess, but anyway's back to the beginning. We arrived at the Twiggs' house on Friday evening and we stayed until we left for camp on Monday. Most of what we did was go to the fair, church, a parade, walmart and watched movies. It was pretty fun and it was a good way to start camp without being so tired.     Camp started off great and just seemed to get better. I got to see a lot of people that I really missed and even meet some new people. Wow, it's just so hard to describe. I guess I'll just go over the highlights and if anyone wants to know more they can ask. Mostly it just consisted of playing fun games and worshipping God. What could be better? One of the things we had to do was get up at 4 AM and each team had to eat a gallon of ice cream. I ate quite a lot and it was actually sort of good despite the fact that it was cold. For the thursday night game we went bowling, but before that we had a youth rally. It was pretty awesome and I think that would be great if we could have something like that around here. Maybe the youth group could do something like that I don't know, but we really need to start doing more outreach. On the way back from Indiana I saw this homeless guy with a sign that said:    Homeless Out of work Needs money for food God Bless    It made me so sad and I really wanted to do something but I didn't have much extra money and I'm not so sure it would be a good idea to approach him without a guy with us. I kinda wish we would of bought him some food or something. Well I guess now all I can do is just pray for him. It's really sad though.     I really want to go to this mission thing with Bible Memory. It's in Florida and it's the first week of April. They do a lot of witnessing and stuff I'm not exactly sure but I really think it would be great. The problem is I need $350 for food, travel, shelter, etc. I really need to get a job I guess or maybe I could just try to raise it.    You know what's weird....I keep talking in an Indiana accent. It's weird. I wish I would stop. Well anyway I'm just going to end and say that my life has taken a turn for the better and maybe I'll write more later when I'm well rested and then I can tell more details.