WOW !  I went to my 20 year high school reunion this past Saturday and it was not at all what I expected.  I was very anxious about this event.  Over the last 20 years, in addition to finishing nursing school, I have been married twice, had 3 kids and gained about 50 pounds, so needless to say I was rather self conscious about showing up - especially since I was going to have to go alone!    I remember my high school years fondly, although there were never really any specifically memorable events, cumulatively it was very enjoyable.  I was not part of the 'popular' crowd, was never invited to parties and none of the cute guys ever asked me out... However, I found out at the reunion that maybe my perception of things wasn't quite accurate.  Several of the guys I knew, but never associated with in school, approached me to finally 'clear the air' as one of them put it.  Each of them confessed to having a crush on me at sometime during our school years.  The most surprising was one individual who I don't believe I EVER spoke to in school (after elementary school) who claimed that I was the object of his affection from 5th grade on!! He said he kept it a secret and was too intimidated to even attempt to ask me out!! How amazing is that!!  I can't believe that ANYONE would have been intimidated by me, much less a star athlete!  Another guy told me that he always considered me one of the 'in' crowd and that I was too far out of his league to ask out... did they know the same me as I did back then????   Well, I certainly came away from this reunion feeling much, much better about myself than when I walked in.  While I'm older and heavier, I had so many positive comments about the way I look (someone even told me I was BEAUTIFUL!) I cannot believe how good it felt.  On the other hand, I felt rather guilty the next morning when Troy called from Afghanistan to inform me that there had been an 'incident' and we lost two of the guys from our unit.  That really burst my bubble and brought the real world crashing in on me.... Oh well, I suppose there's no harm in reliving better times every now and then, especially when current times are so scary....