Five Iron Frenzy has, after 8 years, 6 full-length albums, one EP, countless 7' vinyls and appearances on various compilations, decided to call it quits.  In their farewell two-disc set, Five Iron combines an all-new full-length album ('The End is Near' - Disc 1) and a complete live recording of their final concert ('The End is Here' - Disc 2).  Having attained a huge cult following among America's youth, I don't think I can fully describe the impact Five Iron has had over the years.  I'll let this review speak for me:   By Aleem Hossain   'It’s impossible to do the album justice in a short review as it is quintessential of everything FIF has stood for. Reese Roper has long-established himself as one of the most creative and idiomatic singers and songwriters in the industry and 'The End...' showcases him at his best. There’s a vitriolic attack on capitalism ('American Kryptonite'); a ruthless onslaught on media spin ('Anchors Away') and savage swipes at the music industry ('So Far, So Bad'). The light-hearted 'Wizard Needs Food, Badly' is a track for all those men who just want to play with big boys' toys. The aptly named, 'That’s How The Story Ends' serves to bring a sense of closure with references to older songs such as 'Where Is Micah?', 'The Untimely Death Of Brad' and 'These Are Not My Pants,' as well as a farewell to favourite characters such as Combat Chuck, Kitty Doggy and the blue comb. 'It Was Beautiful' is a sincere song of praise and thanks to God as the band remember the past eight years together. Musically, the band combines elements of rock, punk, ska and metal, whilst 'See The Flames Being To Crawl' features the rasta vocal and groove that the band experimented with on 'All The Hype That Money Can Buy.' By far the brightest jewel on the album is the painfully honest closing track 'On Distant Shores' which recognises the band’s struggles and seems to encompass everything that FIF writes about. The song borrows its closing lines from, what is undeniably one of FIF’s most powerful songs, 'Every New Day'. Clearly, a lot of thought and detail has been put into this project as it combines the best musical elements of previous releases with challenging, poignant and, in typical Five Iron style, humorous lyrics.   You could almost buy the record, which comes in a jewel case and cardboard sleeve, for Douglas Ten Napel's [album] artwork alone. Rumours are bound to be rife as Ten Napel's seemingly dead-and-buried Five Iron Bunny Monster nudges its box open [on the final page]. Suggestion, perhaps, that this is not FIF's final chapter, though I prefer to think that this is just an ironic prod at the rumours which seem to have been an inherent part of FIF's career. Only time will tell, I guess, but the band will leave a huge hole in Christian music as a band who continually sounded so fresh and addressed issues that most Christian bands pretend are not there. It is that ability to balance taboo issues, witty cynicism with a sublime sense of humour that have made Five Iron one of the most refreshing, challenging, unique and loved bands for the best part of a decade. I'm sure, even in years to come, their albums will remain as relevant as ever.'     Yeah.   Grade: A-