7:34 a.m. Wednesday, day 100 ! whoo-hoo! it seemed like a landmark of some kind, until i remembered that i’m not trying to accomplish a number of days dieting, i’m trying to accomplish weight loss. But what the hell, 100 days! yay me! had a wonderful time at daisy’s last night. Talked for four hours straight. Had a great meal (sushi appetizer, grilled chicken on lettuce salad, steamed carrots, black bean salad, pecan brownie for dessert) and a lot of wine. My day’s total is 1895, which is 93 calories over my upper-end goal. So, not a victory, but on “dinner out” days i figure i’ve done well if i reach a draw. Speaking of reaching a draw, of course i weighed myself while i was there, and i weigh exactly the same as i did 12 days ago. That’s what i’ve suspected, that i haven’t lost anything in quite a while. It’s not surprising, what with the vacation (much food, little exercise) and then i’ve had a lot of “over plan” days since. I won’t quite call it “off” plan, because when i’ve stuck to my regimen for 23.75 hours of the day, i want some credit for that. This is one thing i hate about dieting — you can follow your diet all day long, or all week long, and then blow it right the hell up with one meal. A few minutes can cancel out the rest of the day. At least with exercise, when you do it, it’s done. Nothing can take that away from you, you can’t negate it or reverse it. I stop short of actually giving myself permission to go “over plan,” but i will still pat myself on the back for what i did manage. Like, i’ll think to myself, “if that was a year ago, i would have had that brownie for dessert and have already eaten 2200 calories earlier.” at least now i’m putting that brownie on top of 1500 calories. I’m reading urllink food politics by marion nestle. I’ve only just started, but it’s fascinating. I’m shocked, but not surprised, at the amount of fast food and junk food americans eat. I think one reason i’ve been so healthy despite my weight is that we’ve never eaten like that. Not to any great degree; for the past ten years or so (before this diet) our pattern was: i’d eat a fast-food meal maybe twice a month. We’d get a higher-quality fast food (real pizza, subway, chinese food) about once a week. A bag of tortilla chips or pretzels once a week. Go out for goodberry’s once a month. That was the extent of our junk eating. No ring-dings, fritos, krispy kreme, or doritos. Mostly we cooked real meals at home. Chicken and two vegetables, that kind of thing. Bucko has eaten a can of soup and a tuna fish sandwich for breakfast for about the past 20 years. But our food bill is much higher than the statistics in that book indicate. She says food costs only about 10% of the average american’s income. I keep track of our expenses, and i know it’s 20% of ours. Our net income, anyway. You’d think eating at home would be much much cheaper than eating at fast-food, but apparently not. I suppose that’s part of the success of those businesses. However, since i’ve been dieting, our overall food bill has gone down somewhat. The decrease is mostly because of fewer restaurant meals — we used to eat at a regular restaurant about once a week, now we do it once a month. My grocery store bill has actually increased. Although i’m eating less food, i’m buying better food, and that’s costly. However, none of it gets wasted anymore. I’d estimate that about 15% of the fresh food we bought used to end up in the trash, because of spoilage. Now i can’t even remember the last time i threw something away. Now i have the time to cook, and manage our food in general, so all these factors together add up to almost $200 less a month. That really makes you wonder how much having a job costs you, doesn’t it? you have less time, so you end up eating more restaurant meals and throwing away more food. If you made $15 an hour, that $200 difference would cost you 17 hours of labor (i’m assuming about 20% taxes and other deductions from your paycheck). So you have to work just over two days before you make up for what the job is costing you in food. And what about other expenses...? on a related note, if you want to read an interesting article about food and women, try gloria steinem's essay found urllink here. So anyway... It’s 9:22 already and i’ve been surfing and dicking around for almost two hours. I need to go exercise. I’m planning on “glider sprints,” which is the term i just made up for going fast then going slow then going fast again on the glider. And i’m going to watch the first lord of the rings while do it. Nope, haven’t seen that movie yet. And you know what? please don’t threaten to burn me for heresy, but i never liked those books, i think they’re dull as ditchwater. Hoping the movie is better. 10:28 a.m. The glider sprints worked out great. I did 3 minutes regular speed, 2 minutes fast, and repeated that for 30 minutes. According to the glider's built-in calculator, i burned 241 calories, which is about what i usually burn in 30 minutes. That doesn't seem right, so i'm going to assume that the calculator is only good for a ballpark idea of the calories burned. Which is true, because it doesn't take into account body weight or muscle density or any of that stuff, and apparently it's basing its calculation more on elapsed time than repetitions. Watched the first 30 minutes of tfotr, and i'm not impressed. It's more dull than the book. I wonder if it would have worked better if the first movie was the hobbit? i didn't like all the back story part, that's not a grand opening to what should be an adventurous, epic movie. And i just had this weird feeling of watching a 'making of' special. Not sure how to describe that, but to me none of the characters seemed real, they were all flat representations, almost symbols, of the people in the book. It didn't seem like anyone was trying to be believable and bring life and interpretation to the role, they were just trying to be the most obviously-recognizable version of what they thought most people imagined the character to be. Whew. Could anyone follow that chain of thought? i'll probably try watching more later or tomorrow, maybe it will get better. 1:38 p.m. Tuna fish and lettuce salad for lunch, very nice. Doing very well with my eating and water drinking today. I got the trim in the staircase painted. Now for some more research on data warehousing; warren didn’t like any of my covers monday and wants me to try again. I almost felt upset for about half a second, and then immediately thought 1) i don’t care if he likes them and 2) fine, more billable hours. 2:25 p.m. Researching data warehousing in the web and i’m cross-eyed from it. This is unbelievably tedious, and i’m not coming up with any ideas for the cover. I can hardly keep my eyes open, and i think i will need a nap this afternoon. Otherwise, how will i stay awake for the new south park? 5:26 p.m. Watched another hour of tfofr, and i doubt i’ll finish it. I thought it started to get better for a while, but then it reverted to dullness. And all that cg. You know, i hate cg. It is simply not good enough. I don’t care how “real” it looks, that’s almost beside the point. It’s not done “well.” i’ve never seen any cg that’s half as captivating as the average disney feature cartoon from the 1940s. I don’t suppose you could make a movie (three movies) of the lord of the rings without cg, but as usual, they’ve let it overpower the story. It’s as if the cg is a character, the lead character. There are some scenes where the actors are allowed to exercise their craft, but only too rarely. It makes for a very sterile film.