[ EDIT ] 1:05 am...     ``Fell in love, and everything that I wanted  What a life for me...  Now a thing don't mean a thing,  since we've parted  Meant the world to me...  And though my heart's still beatin',  when will i breathe again  And when will someone wake me from,  this awful dream I'm in   If you could see the way I live my life  If you could see the way I cry at night  If you could understand the reasons why  That I'm loving you still...  If you could hear me when I call your name  You gotta know it's driving me insane  You know I'll never ever love again  'Cause I'm loving you still   I had someone watch over me, my protector  Kept me safe and warm  I had someone makin' love to me,  I thought forever  But forever now is gone..  So i spend my days pretending,  I spend my nights alone   I've never missed somebody so,  I've never loved so long ``     Well i got my bed set up and everything, still have these ugly boxes.. But, right now i'm watchin&nbsp;  elimiDATE ... these girls are bitches... haha... this gurl won her boobs through a trivia game, haha. But i went out to eat with my cousin , we went to this chinese place, it was HELLLLA good!! and then we went to go see  a Cinderella story , it was hella cute, i reccomend it. But someone turned off my computer so photoshop  still  isnt all the way downloaded.. So i'm waitin on that.... But anyways ... yeah were just sittin around.. my cuzzos gon stay the night... woo hoo... and i guess markus is stayin true to him hangin up cause i checked the caller id and that negro didnt call me allll day. [  so sad ... =/ ] Well i'm outties!!  xoxo &nbsp; oh yeah hey, wats up with this new rich text blogger??  i like !! [/EDIT]     &nbsp;    &nbsp;   ROCKIN DA: blue pj's  LISTENIN TO: nelly &amp; jahiem- my place   Well, I guess me and markus arent talkin, because last night he got mad and hung up on me, and i told him dont call me back if u hang up on me, and he said if i hang up on you i'll never call you back. Oh well, i guess its just that easy . Well last night my damn tv stopped working, so i had to call the direct tv place today, so now it works. Earlier i went riding on the 4 wheeler with my brother, and it was hella fun because he goes on big ass jumps, and we drove on the street to the store we were goin like 55 and my eyes were all chinky and they were watering and yall know when in me myself and irene, hes on his motorcycle, and all the bugs hit his face, well a bug hit my ear, it was kinda nasty.... but anyways i fell off becasue he did a wheely and then got off and i wasnt holding on, it was hellllla funny!! but now my ass hurts. haha, but then we kinda 'wrecked' because he did a phat ass wheely and the wheely bar broke so i had to get up and there was all grass everywhere. It was koo. but anyways... today i have to move all the boxes in my room and vaccum , so my dad can put up my bed. I really dont want to do that... gRR. but its koo... so anyways... i am hella dissapointed that Martha Stewart is going to go to prison for 5 months. Thats bullshit. DO YA THUG THIZZLE MARTHA!! Damn i think i'm gonna write her a letter. speaking of LETTER, how bout someone send me some mothafuckin mail, thatd be koo... well i'm downloadin photodhop so i can put some pics on here so yeh... uhm i'm gonna go now!! and i'll holla at yall later &nbsp;   wow, what a song, i thought it was funny, that i came across this shit    Tamia - Long Distance Love   [Intro]   It's so hard having a long distance love   It seems like  Well, it just seems like he's so far away  And when I call him and he doesn't answer  Well, it seems like the world won't turn  (Yeah, mmm)  I just wanna pick up the phone just to hear his voice  (Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah)  I call him and let it ring and ring until he answers  Just to tell him how much I miss him  How much I can't stand being this far apart  (Ooh ooh, yeah)  But most of all, I wanna tell him  (Yeah yeah)  I can't picture being without him  (Yeah, hey yeah, hey yeah, hey yea)   Can't picture livin' my life without you man  Can't picture you not bein' around to hold my hand, yeah  Can't picture us sittin' on seperate sides of the land  I can't picture you bein' this far without me man, man  Can't picture you with no phone to call me babe  Can't picture you bein' five miles away, yeah  Can't picture goin' on another day  Even if it's just a phone call away   I tried long distance love, I called AT&amp;T  I tried Bell Atlantic, Sprint  But none of them connects me to you  Yeah, ooh ooh, yeah   I tried long distance love, I called AT&amp;T  I tried Bell Atlantic, Sprint  But none of them connects me to you  Yeah, ooh ooh, yeah   Can't picture you with another chick, boy I can't eat  Can't picture it in my mind, I can't sleep  Can't picture us never bein' more than two feet  Can't picture this love thing not meant to be, be  Can't picture you not drivin' in my neighborhood  Can't picture them hatin' on you cuz you too good, yeah  Can't picture me goin' on another day  Even though you're just a phone call away   I tried long distance love, I called AT&amp;T  I tried Bell Atlantic, Sprint  But none of them connects me to you  Yeah, ooh ooh, yeah   I tried long distance love, I called AT&amp;T  I tried Bell Atlantic, Sprint  But none of them connects me to you  Yeah, ooh ooh, yeah   1-800  Dial my man, as fast as I can  He's my long distance lover  So far away, my baby   1-800  Dial my man, as fast as I can  He's my long distance lover  So far away, my baby   I tried long distance love, I called AT&amp;T  I tried Bell Atlantic, Sprint  But none of them connects me to you  Yeah, ooh ooh, yeah   I tried long distance love, I called AT&amp;T  I tried Bell Atlantic, Sprint  But none of them connects me to you  Yeah, ooh ooh, yeah