we had an outing yesterday with my co-employees at the bank.  we went to Guintubdan, La Carolota.  it was the first time for most of us.  we trekked for the falls.  it was a 30 minute or so walk.  we were all catching our breaths.  whew!  but we made it.  the water was chilly ice.  you can feel your body getting numb because of the coldness.  we only stayed less than an hour because we headed for the nearby waterfalls.  another 30 minutes of trekking.  but the trip was worth it because the falls looked calming and the whole scene is indeed breathtaking.  its like you can hear yourself being one with nature.  soaking myself in the cold water was like communing with mother earth.  the cold air and water were enough to make you be lulled to sleep.  after the trip, we went back to the pavilion and prepared lunch.  i felt sleepy.  so while waiting for lunch, i slept. (one of my officer's supervised the cooking so all of us girls just waited, hehe!)  food trip...tilapia, squid, bangus, pork bbq, grilled pork, tinolang manok, ripe mangoes and watermelon.  fiesta to the max.    all of us girls stayed in the pavilion the rest of the afternoon while the boys trekked to another waterfalls.  just enjoyed looking at the scenery since the pavilion overlooked some parts of negros.  even mount kanlaon was visible already.     we used a different route when we went back to bacolod.  it was the first time i felt proud to be born in negros.  why?  because we are a hundredtimes better than cebu and manila in terms of abundant trees.  our mountains still have a lot of greens in them.  i especially loved the pine trees.  its as if i was in baguio.  even the zigzag roads were like that of canon road too.  (fyi, i haven't been to baguio but its just the ones i see on tv)  we passed buenos aires in ma-ao.  the last stop was in our manager's poulty farm.  we enjoyed the fresh eggs picking.  each of us had a dozen eggs to take home.  yippy!!!  sigh!!  the day was very tiring but very fun indeed.  i got a tan too.  our next outing will be on april 9...salvador benedicto.  looking forward to it.