I haven't done a crochet post in a while, but I feel obligated, on behalf of the yarn-purchasing population of my area, to tell you about my love affair with yarn.  Back in the day, I'd assume the 70s judging from my mom's experience, there was not a whole lot of choice when it came to yarn.   There was a lot of worsted and a lot of fingering, and a LOT of sport.   There were solid colors.   There was scratchiness, whether it was synthetic(acrylics? polyesters?) or natural(sheepses.)  Today is different. Today, we have so many weights and textures - bulky and chunky! Micro-fingering! Eyelash and boa, mohair and boucle, chenille and cotton!!! They even make yarn out of Polartec and terry!  We have variegation! We have tweed! We have no-dye-lot!  We have baby yarn, soft pastels!   Kids' yarn - the thick, primaries-and-neons variegations!   The 'teen' yarn, the stuff that made knitting 'cool' - the fuzzy stuff to make those [revoltingly popular] eyelash scarves, and the honorable chunky, silky, colorful Homespun - guranteed to make even the worst stitching look elegant!   The stylish 'adult' yarn - loopy boucles in bright colors, soft mohairs in earth tones!  And the rest of them - the denim print! The magic-stripey! The sparkly holiday yarn!  So much yarn.... so much beautiful, soft, ARTISTIC yarn. So much choice!  And when you dream up a pattern, and you look online to see what could make that pattern come to life....   You realize that it's just so soulless to buy yarn online. You have to see it in real life! (And real light!) You have to touch it! You have to feel its warmth and its weight!  You have no choice. You MUST shop.  There's a sense of urgency as one embarks on a yarn hunt. You enter the craft store knowing EXACTLY where to go. You envision the project that will begin as soon as your perfect yarn has been found. You hope and pray that IT is there, that it hasn't sold out, that it's stocked, that it's in the right colors....  And you end up face-to-face with an amazingly HUGE aisle of yarn!  (Isle of Yarn?.... what an idea.)  Two huge cases, reaching to the ceiling, filled with color! Rolls stacked on balls stacked on skeins stacked on those huge one-pound bags! A still-frozen avalanche of fibrous wonder, just waiting for you to enter!  You can't decide where to begin! Do you slowly pace up and down, giving each style the consideration it deserves? Or do you jump at the first one that catches your eye, even though there are NORMAL PEOPLE watching?  What am I talking about?...... NORMAL people don't craft-shop.  You jump!........ and it's a miss.   But the first one's always a miss! You never buy the first prom dress you try on, right? ... so there must be more!  You jump about, as more and more hook your attention. ALAS! It's all-wool-blend.... or it's super-duper-fine fingering weight.... or it's really scratchy, upon touch......or it's actually......well....... that one's kind of ugly, now that you look at it closely.  But wait.... you've scanned the whole aisle! Why hasn't YOUR yarn jumped out to greet you?  Is it hiding in the sale rack?..........No - just Easter and Christmas stuff here.  Is there another aisle? Is it on the end?  Okay.... okay. Time to pace up and down, scanning each type.  So... here we go.... It's almost found! Almost there!  Blue acrylic sport weight. ..... royal blue acrylic sport weight.... magical blue acrylic sport weight... dusky blue acrylic sport weight.... red.... scarlet.... gules..... tan.... beige..... cafe con leche........ cafe au lait..... cafe mocha.....cafe.... coffee........brown... mahogany.... ebony..... black.... black.... white.... white... white....   acrylic.  sport.  weight.  Can it be? An entire HALF an aisle devoted to five different companies making the EXACT same yarn?   Instead of stocking up on the fudge brownies, ladyfingers, and strawberry tarts of the yarn world, this store has about 7 different kinds of packaged, processed, preserved, and, i might add, eerily PERFECTLY ROUND chocolate chip cookies.  And so did the next store. And the one after that.  So many kinds of yarn. So many stores.  So much ugly yarn in stock.  And, as I'm discovering, such high shipping costs for online yarn shops.