One must begin and end then with the act of the copula. In die grundprobleme der phänomenologie [ga 24], heidegger speaks of the theory of double judgement within the logical works of herman lotze, sighting lotze's small logik by glossing, out of context, that the 'copula, which combines as well as separates' with aristotle's assesment of the copula of the assertion as both sunthesis and diairesis . The purpose for the ressurection of lotze's logic is precisely the negation and privalging of the logik in hegel, thus heidegger states that it 'is' - 'an attempt to come to terms with hegel, but it is still very much influenced by hegel.' thus we may maintain in a factical way concerning our attunement toward the copula with regard toward the silence of its presence (... Words in progress ...) as follows {citing heidegger}: 'in negative judgement, the negation is only a new, second judgement about the truth of the first, which latter properly has to be thought as positive. The second judgment is a judgment about the truth or falsehood of the first.' thus the judgment of the second serves for us rather than as a negation and denial of the metaphysical truthfulness of the initial being-directed-towards, but rather an interpretation of the epitemological, understood more broadly within the factical life world as the larger and more profound hermenteutic interpretation of, presentation, that is the enframing of the assertion in its negation, the second judgment. It must be understood then what we mean by this very term factical [ faktisch ] with regards to the modes of being-directed-toward, glossed from aussein auf [being out toward], related initially with the concept of intentionality toward 'what it gives to the wholeness of dasein, always 'out toward what it is not but can be' [thus], transforming its sense in the direction of the pure possibility of ek-static temporality.'(kisiel, 492). What is essential in being understood here is that the possibility of this ecstatic temporality is achieved through the very authenticity (q.v.) of the dasein in its various modes of attunment, most notably here the character of the mood(/mode) of love , by which dasein comes to become aware of its call-to-conscience and the very possibility of its authenticity. Thus we will recall heidegger as saying: if we recall what we ourselves said about perception, the concept of intentionality can, to begin with, be made clear as follows. Every comportment is a comporting-toward; perception is a perceiving-of. We call this comporting-toward in the narrower sense the intendere or intentio. Every comporting-toward and every being-directed-toward [hofstadter trans] has its specific wherto of the comporting and toward-which of the directedness. Heidegger continues a few pages later, by saying, importantly for us, here , that is now, in the priority of our moment: we therefore {in discussing intentionality } distinguish not only terminologically but also for reasons of intrinsic content between the uncoveredness of a being and the disclosedness of its being. A being can be uncovered, whether, by way of perception or some other mode of access, only if the being of this being is already disclosed - only if i already understand it. Only then can i ask whether it is actual or not and embark on some procedure to establish the actuality of the being. We must then conclude, in all honesty, not with a conclusion, but rather an openning-into, by making a returned reference in the infite differment of our dialogue to the discussion of facticity, that is the very factical life which becomes dasein: [hofstader trans] dasein understands its own most peculiar being in the sense of a certain 'factual extantness'. And yet the 'factuality' of the fact of our own dasein is fundamentaly different from the factual occurrence of some sort of mineral. The factuality of the faktum dasein, as which at each time each dasein is, we call facticity . The complicated structure of this determination of being can itself be grasped as a problem only in the light of the basic existential constitution of the dasein which have already been elaborated. The concept of facticity contains within itself: the being-in-the-world of an 'intraworldly' being in such a way that this being can understand itself as closely bound up in its 'destiny' with the being of the beings which it encounters within its own world. Exegetical postcard to a friend upon an early morning... Return to sender. Essential philosophizing is understood by: 'the suffering and instruction that the person who is growing in insight receives from the painful experience of reality.' backblog('100503','apotropos') urllink feedback