Federer admits fear of failure  By Stephen Bierley July 7, 2004  All the great players of the past are keen to point out that nobody can be regarded as a true champion until he or she has successfully defended a grand slam title. And that was the fear that stalked Roger Federer throughout the first week of Wimbledon this year.  'Now the sense of satisfaction is unbelievable because the worst thing would have been to lose early,' he said yesterday. 'To defend the title is just amazing. It was all so new to me and I'm so proud I could handle all the pressure.'  Federer summed up his rivalry with Andy Roddick as 'Mr Service against Mr Finesse', then allowed himself a minor dig at the man who, for a set, had appeared capable of blasting the Swiss champion off the centre court on Sunday afternoon. 'I hit more aces than him,' Federer noted.  Roddick will be put to the test himself when he defends his United States Open title at Flushing Meadows in September. And he will know that Federer, who has not progressed beyond the last 16 in New York in four previous attempts, will be aiming to show the American public why he has won three of the past five grand slam titles and is the undisputed world No. 1.  With Federer and Roddick ranked the top two players in the world, the chance that they will meet in major finals has strengthened, although the pressure will be on the American in the US Open.  It looks all but impossible for Federer, having successfully defended his Wimbledon title, to lose the No. 1 spot this year, a position he wrenched away from Roddick at the Australian Open. That was on his way to winning what was his second slam title, one he intends to keep hold of next January.  Roddick, by comparison, was relatively stress-free over the past fortnight and had convinced himself that Federer, to whom he had lost five of his previous six encounters, could be beaten. The tennis world would love it if the Roddick-Federer rivalry developed along the lines of the sport's other great match-ups, principally because the contrast in styles and temperaments makes for such a fascinating duel.  Why all the players - men and women, the current generation and the champions of the past - love Federer so much is that, in an era when power has become so dominant, he has proved that tennis can still be played with subtlety and skill. He has become the model to aspire to, someone to link the sport with its rich past and convince others that there is still beauty in the game.  That is not to say that Federer does not use the strong arm when required, for he can hit forehands and backhands of immense power. However, it is the sheer variety that is so thrilling. Whereas Roddick paints in primary colours, the Swiss master uses the full palette. That is not to denigrate Roddick, who has added more facets over the past 12 months under the guidance of Brad Gilbert, Andre Agassi's former coach. But his extraordinary whiplash serve will always be the core of his game.  'I am never going to serve as fast as him,' said Federer. 'I would have to change my whole service action. But I can serve consistently and that is what it is about for me.'  In fact, some critics fear that Roddick is storing up shoulder or wrist problems because of the severity of his hitting. Federer, however, seems to be playing within himself.  Appearance can be deceptive and, although Federer seemed to be cruising in the opening rounds at Wimbledon, he was inwardly in turmoil. 'The pressure I put on myself was unbelievable,' he said. 'In the early rounds, I did not really enjoy it. Once I got to the semi-finals, the quarters even, I was thinking 'Well, OK . . . I could live with this.' It was my dream to win it again.'   - Guardian  quoted from  urlLink  here