So much to tell you!  I have had some cool thoughts recently about what I want to post, but it is late, so a few at a time eh?   Defence  Ok I just watched the Aussie NZ game. Defence seemed to win the game. Ok I am pretty rugby illiterate, but from my perspective the Aussie defence was impregnable. Defence is so important. You might be an average team with offence, but if you have superb defence, you are going places. Well tis a thought anyway. May not be true.   Bible Society Touch Tournament  Jono and I went and played for Trinity (yay go Trinity!) at the Bible Society Touch tournament. The team played quite well, but were thrashed in all games we played. We weren't bad at all, just struggled putting  things together at times. It was all good fun though.    Person of the Week  Steve Farrar author of 'Standing Tall - How a Man Can Protect His Family'. I will quote some extracts from this wonderful book for men. In fact I will do it now. I can do it. I will do it nine times. Actually I will just do it once.   Quotes of the Week  From the book mentioned above:-   '... a community that allows a large number of young men (and women) to grow up in broken families, dominated by women, never acquiring any stable relationship to male authority, never acquiring any set of rational expectations about the future.... that community asks for and gets chaos.'  - Patrick Moynihan as quoted by Steve Farrar.   'A society cannot survive without male leadership. For when male leadership ceases to be a reality in the home, we are only one generation away from anarchy in the streets. This is the direction that our nation is going. If we lose male leadership in Christian families, then this country is finished for sure.'   And lastly:-   'I believe that when you look at every major pressing social issue in this country; whether it's teenage pregnancy, child abuse, drive-by shootings, teenage suicide, or the divorce rate, and reduce each of those problems down to their lowest common denominator, you will find in each case the same root cause. That cause is a lack of male leadership.'    Men  Men, we really need to put our heads up and start being leaders. But to be leaders we need to be worthy of following. Let's get to it! It's our God given role, let's fulfill it in a godly manner, and start to reverse the social chaos we find our country in.