uhuh! today is the big day! today, is the day that i waited for quite long! let me tell you about that later... today, i woke up early coz mama said we were going to leave early today.. at 9:30, i was already awake.. we ate our considered lunch at 10:30... mama got angry because she wanted us to attend mass(coz today is first friday), but she said that we were preparing very slowly and if we didn't catch the mass at 12, we will not be watching Harry Potter... of course i can't let that happen... she started nagging at me and said that i was the slowest.. i was very much annoyed by that nagging, but i got so used to it that i totally ignored it... nothing can ruin my good mood... :) so there, we went to greenbelt to attend mass and also, to meet our cousins there who will also be watching Harry Potter.. after the mass, we proceeded to glorietta and bought some tickets for the 2:15 slot... we didn't bought sure seats tickets, they bought free seats.. we decided to just enter the cinema earlier.. we still had time to eat and have snacks coz it's just 1:20... and my cousins hasn't eaten lunch yet.. so they ate at wendy's and i bought gigantic popcorns from Tater's.. we entered the cinema at 2:00.. the film started at 2:25... and as i have written in the title...  I AM COMPLETELY DISAPPOINTED AND UPSET!!! GRRRRRR....  the fucking director ruined the whole story! he was like changing the whole story and making up his own! he haven't even read the Book! i hate him! like, the whole setting was changed! imagine?! hogwarts seemed to be built at the top of a mountain! and to reach hagrid's house, you must like come down from large blocks of rocks! unlike on the previous movies that hagrid's hut is just footsteps away from the castle! grrrr! and the whomping willow isn't tamed by pressing a knot! Remus Lupin just flicked his wand and said:  'Immobilous'  dunno, if that was the spelling! i was completely annoyed while i was watching the movie! Cho Chang wasn't even there!!! and the firebolt, which in the book, they thought was jinxed and which was anonymously sent was received by Harry in the end of the movie! he received it after sirius and buckbeak has escaped! and Harry knew that Peter Pettigrew was alive through the Marauder's Map.. isn't it that Sirius and Lupin are the one's who will reveal that he is still alive! the actor which played Dumbledore was awful! it was very much different from the previous one! oh no! i don't know what to expect on Book 4! and, if you haven't read the book like my mom, you will not fully understand the story! it seems like it doen't have a story at all! maybe, the director assumed that te ones who will be watching are the ones who read the book! he was so stupid! i want columbus back! grrrr.. the film was uhhmmmm, horrible, if i may say.. sorry,if i'm acting too exagerated.. but, i expected so much from this film, i thought this was going to be great... but, no! so that's it... till next time, see yah! bye!