Last night sucked... Sleep would not come-even after taking THREE Tylenol PM... *s i g h* After tossing and turning all night, moving from location to location-I finally slept.     Dreaming, I was off in a land where I couldn't do anything to protect myself-first I was with my cousin [one of the pretty ones] getting a dress that I was going to wear to prom... [Erin does not go to proms--especially since her boyfriend is thousands of miles away] but she wanted to go-so she got one of her cousins ugly old dresses. Blah. Then Cayla and someone else wanted to go and break into this blokes house... he was rich, and he was one of their friends, so we decided to do it... WELL BY US BREAKING IN.. they meant me doing it.. after searching about a bit-I decided to get out, and let them in instead... As I left, I started jogging back to my 'grandma's' house---which was my Ex-Aunt Cathy's house. When running, a car pulled over, and it carried a man inside, 'can I ask you where you are heading?' he said.. 'no. just leave please.'   he got out of the car and started running behind me.. 'well it's an odd direction that you are going to'  i started to get all nervous-running faster.. 'i'm going to the cemetery!' i said, pointing to a cemetery that just happened to be next to my 'grandmas' [i quote that--because i called her that--but i couldn't ever ever call her that in person] house. blah blah blah. He continues to run after me, and so I tell him that I have MACE with me, and asked him if he wanted to be sprayed---so that he should just leave me alone...  running got slower and slower--harder to run, like the grass was thick. He said it was okay, because he had some as well... *sigh* I didn't even have mace, all I had was a keychain and keys to get inside the house...  Finally! I get to the house, open the door and turn around, and he's standing there---somehow, on the keychain, was a small bottle of mace--and I sprayed as much as I could in his face, slammed the door... trying to lock it--but he kept trying to get in, as I was holding it shut... la la laa.. finally.. dream ends. grrrrrrrrrrr I hate dreams like that!!!!!!  Am sad.... I miss my Stevie Poopie..  : (