urlLink Army Pfc. Nicholas H. Blodgett,  21, of Wyoming, Mich.; assigned to the 1st Squadron, 4th Cavalry Regiment, Schweinfurt, Germany; killed July 21 when his patrol vehicle hit an improvised explosive device in Abdalluyah, Iraq.      sirs and sirettes,     urlLink Marine Cpl. Todd J. Godwin,  21, of Muskingum County, Ohio; assigned to 1st Battalion, 8th Marines, 2nd Marine Division, Camp Lejeune, N.C.; killed July 20 by enemy action in Anbar province, Iraq.    sometimes i wonder about random things. like..     Marine Pfc. Rodricka A. Youmans,    22, of Allendale, S.C.; assigned to 2nd Light Armored Reconnaissance Battalion, 2nd Marine Division, II Marine Expeditionary Force at Camp Lejeune, N.C.; killed July 6 by enemy action in Anbar province, Iraq.    how it would actually feel to get shot in the arm. would your fingers tingle? is it possible not to cry? did you see it coming?     Army Sgt. 1st Class Linda Ann Tarango-Griess,    33, of Sutton, Neb.; assigned to the 267th Ordnance Company, Nebraska National Guard, Lincoln, Neb.; killed July 11 when an improvised explosive device detonated near her convoy vehicle in Samarra, Iraq.    or if i could peep a large piece of shrapnel protruding from an important part of my body, who would i think of first? would i feel ill? the dull nausea you get when you smash your shin into a table, maybe. or nothing. cold fear and clammy palms?     Army Cpl. Demetrius L. Rice,    24, of Ortonville, N.M.; assigned to 5th Battalion, 20th Infantry Regiment, 3rd Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division, Fort Lewis, Wash.; killed July 14 when his vehicle rolled over as the driver tried to avoid another vehicle in Talafar, Iraq.    i don't know. heh. i'm probably just really fucking weird, you know. like. perhaps your life is full of real things, so you don't have time to sit still and ponder the arbitrary and slightly morbid.     Marine Lance Cpl. Bryan P. Kelly,    21, of Klamath, Ore.; assigned to 1st Combat Engineer Battalion, 1st Marine Division, I Marine Expeditionary Force, Camp Pendleton, Calif.; killed July 16 by enemy action in Anbar province, Iraq.    i say that, but then i think of all the sinister toil that war men (term stolen from a child, creditcredit) are eventually partial to.. and i think maybe it's not about how weird i am, but rather that they know too many of the answers to this shit and it unstitches them. i think maybe i was just a soldier in someone else's army the last time 'round, even though now i just play drums.     Army Sgt. Dale T. Lloyd,    22, of Watsontown, Pa.; assigned to the 1st Battalion, 32nd Infantry, 1st Brigade, 10th Mountain Division (Light Infantry), Fort Drum, N.Y.; killed July 19 when multiple mortar rounds hit his forward operating base in Iskandariyah, Iraq.    a lot of the time, i come to unfounded conclusions.. i bet their socks are burnt if they lose a toe. or maybe they're just washed and returned, with a holey hole hole where the improvised explosive did its work. surprise, mother tarango-griess. we never did find her shoe.    urlLink    Army Pfc. Charles C. Persing,    20, of Albany, La.; assigned to the 1st Battalion, 32nd Infantry, 1st Brigade, 10th Mountain Division (Light Infantry), Fort Drum, N.Y.; killed July 19 when multiple mortar rounds hit his forward operating base in Iskandariyah, Iraq.    where do they dump the ash, though?  enough of this. promise.     Army Staff Sgt. Stephen G. Martin,    39, of Rhinelander, Wis.; assigned to the 330th Military Police Detachment, Army Reserve, Sheboygan, Wis.; died July 1 at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, D.C., from injuries sustained June 24 when a car bomb exploded near his guard post in Mosul, Iraq.    but guess what. the other day an 11 year old asked me if america was like hitler. he said he thinks it might be.. that america is pretty much like hitler, just with more money and bigger guns.     Navy Petty Officer 2nd Class Robert B. Jenkins,    35, of Stuart, Fla.; assigned to Naval Mobile Construction Battalion 14, Jacksonville, Fla.; killed May 2 by hostile fire in Anbar province, Iraq.    he said he thinks america is killing boys that bleed like him. and maybe girls that bleed like him. he said that america might not be crippling the jewish, but people are people. he said hitler was a pretty fucked up dude.      Army Pfc. Bradley G. Kritzer,    18, of Irvona, Pa.; assigned to 1st Battalion, 21st Field Artillery Regiment, 1st Cavalry Division, Fort Hood, Texas; killed May 5 when his vehicle hit an improvised explosive device in Baghdad.    he said he was looking at pictures of iraq in class and he thinks that dinosaurs and cockroaches should be living there, not human beans. beans.    like, shit.    urlLink    Army Spc. James E. Marshall,    19, of Tulsa, Okla.; assigned to 1st Battalion, 21st Field Artillery Regiment, 1st Cavalry Division, Fort Hood, Texas; killed May 5 when his vehicle hit an improvised explosive device in Baghdad.    but anyway. i just wanted to say hi.     Army Staff Sgt. Richard P. Ramey,    27, of Canton, Ohio; assigned to the 703rd Ordinance Company, Fort Knox, Ky., supporting the 82nd Airborne Division; killed Feb. 8 when an improvised explosive device detonated in Mahmudiyah, Iraq.    honour the fallen on a website and do them justice?  pretty, but no.  fret for your freedom and your neighbour's cousin. fuck bush. link and come.  hi.   i'm new here.