Yesterday was incredible.   I really don't need to say any more. So I woke up and did some stuff and I did decide to wear shorts. And then when we were all in the car on the thruway the E-Z Pass didn't work. So the guy in the tollbooth said, 'Back up Mr. Sutton.' Refering to my grandfather. The thing was, no of us knew who the guy was. Someone got the idea that since he has the E-Z Pass that his name would show up on a computer, but the E-Z Pass wasn't working. So that was a little weird. Then we get on the bus and my grandfater had to sit with a stranger, but it turned out he wasn't a stranger at all. My grandfather sits down and this guy says, very loudly, 'Mr. Sutton!' I turned to Julianna and said, 'Another guy that knows him?' It turns out that the guy my grandfather sat with worked at Blue Circle, when it was Blue Circle and when my grandfather worked there. The bus ride was long, 3 hours, and we watched a movie, A League of Their Own. It was OK, but no Charlie Brown flick. Then we got in the city and we got our picture taken, and then we started out walk to Yankee Stadium. My mom and sister wanted to stop at the stores on the side with the entrance to the Bleachers. So we did and I got a number 33 Javier Vazquez shirt. Then we kept on walking, and the people who wanted to go to the stores didn't get anything, lol. We kept on walking and I had to take a pill for my toothache, so we had to get me some water. Oh, we found some, $4.25. Then we got inside the Stadium and we found our seats but Julianna wanted to get some food. So I went with her, and that walk with her was the best part of the day. I didn't even need to watch the game now. So she got her food and when we came back everyone was gone, we sat in the wrong seats, lol. So we relocated to our new seats, but I left my All-Star ballot at my first seat, :( I will vote online 17 times to make up for it ;). The game, eh, the rookie pitcher didn't fair too well, neiter did any other pitcher we borught in. The offense struggled, scoring 3 runs. One courtsey of a Matsui homerun. But the game, finally, did end. But throught out the whole game we had people yelling things around up. A father asking his son, Conner or sometimes Con, if he had the Jeter placque, a drunken Mets fans telling us to look at the scoreboard, a miserable daugter, or a guy telling the people above him to stop throwing the peanuts down at him and his son. But the best line didn't come at the Stadium but in the car after we eat dinner. But that will come a bit later. So, after the game we find our bus and they put in another movie, The Legend of Bagger Vance. I didn't watch the movie this time. Julianna and I played the Dots game where you have to make squares from connecting dots with lines. She won, but we played one game of Tic-Tac-Toe, and I won there :). Then we drew some things, the best was Julianna's drawing of the people saying things around us at the Stadium. But we were both tired and we slept. We went to dinner and then on the ride home my grandmother said something like, 'What's that nosie.' And I said to Julianna, 'That's the sound of birds making babies.' And my mom was acting a little strange so Julianna said, 'I don't think those were cigarets she was smoking.' And Julianna but her index and thumb together near her lips. Then we took Julianna home and it was like a field day back in Elememtary School. Everyone had to meet everyone else. And my grandmother and mom had to see Julianna's dogs. I was thinking to myself, Hey, I can see Julianna for a couple minutes more.' So I stepped out and not only did I get to see her some more, I got a hug out of it too. :) I got back home and told my mom that I only had the water from the begginning of the day to take a pill. So I drank some orange juice. Then I went to bed and feel alseep like a bear in winter. I slept for 13 hours, to make up for the 3 and a half I slept the other night. But now I am going to stop typing because you know you have been typing too much, or you are delusional when you type the word more and it looks wrong. And then you spellcheck it. And plus, I get to watch another Yankee game at 105, the pitching matchup we were supposed to see yesterday.  Yesterday was great Julianna, I wouldn't have wanted to spend it with anyone else. Goodbye all.