To be honest, my hopes were not high when I picked up this game on sale. It looked pretty simple and pretty bloody ugly but surely it'd be worth a quid or so? The game powered up and there was the sweet, sweet sound of the Ghostbusters theme, my eyes teared with joy and I danced. Hopes were raised and then instantly dashed as soon as I started playing it.  It seem that the theme was what they spent 90% of their budget on because it sure as hell wasn't the game itself. It fails at the most basic of tasks with the weapons more often than not completely missing where your crosshair was aiming, this is especially noticeable on the blue plasma gun thing. Yes that's right they decided to give you fancy new weapons. They are utter ♥♥♥♥, but they are there. The other alternate weapon to the classic proton pack is a spread fire yellow monstrosity that is about as effective as attacking ghosts with a wet sock.  What makes it worse is you don’t even get to ignore these less than stellar bonus weapons as for some bizarre reason the game devs decided that busting ghosts required us to play a fun, fun game (read: entirely not fun) of match the colours. You see ghosts have decided to bring out their summer range of ghostly glows and are colour coded in Red, Yellow &amp; Blue. Red can only be slain with your proton pack, yellow is reserved for the wet sock gun and blue is for you misaligned plasma weapon.  All this high octane 'gameplay' is spread over something around 11 levels. Only there is only 5 maps (excluding the last boss battle map) so you play through the dull selection of maps, Hotel, Sewer, Graveyard etc. only to have the pleasure of playing them again, with minor changes. Not that'll you notice any of the changes because they are still uglier than a pitbulls ♥♥♥♥♥♥. Special mention goes the to the half on rails shooter sections in which you are driven around on the back of ECTO-4WD, a 4x4 version of the iconic Ghostbusters car only this time driven by what can only assume is a London cabbie off his face of crack. Just when you think things can't get worse the final level before you are faced with the uninspiring giant demon last boss baddie is a map where you get to fight each of the bosses you have defeated one by one. OH FUN!  Maybe things wouldn't be so bad if the AI was apparently programmed to act like baby ducklings. Baby ducklings with highly dangerous weaponry and suicidal tendencies. When they aren't all trying to hug each other for warmth (while unleashing proton beams into each other faces) they are pinning you to the wall so the ghosts get to chew your face off, or my favourite, using the wrong gun to attack ghost. See, even the AI thinks it's a ♥♥♥♥ idea to have colour coded ghosts! It probably wouldn’t be as bad if every ghost on the screen seems to target the human player, leaving you sprinting around with a comical conga line of monsters behind you while the AI 'busters discusses amongst themselves the finer points of window licking.  Now I suppose this could be solved by having three friends play alongside you, which I suppose is true. Yanno, if you have some friends you really, really hate because they won't be friends with you after enduring this. Thank Christ it’s short.