Okay, this is just based on my own personal experience. I understand there have been a lot of major performance issues for a lot of people. I count myself fortunate that these issues have not happened for me for the most part.   The Good: If you liked the first Dishonored you will like this game. The gameplay and mechanics are essentially the same (which is a positive as they were good in the first game) except for the option to play as Corvo or Emily and a few new abilities that come with her character. The gameplay and level design are the game's strongest aspects with multiple paths and options available to complete a mission in a variety of ways. The clockwork mansion and the crack in the slab level (where you travel between the past and present) are probably the best of these. As before I found the world design and lore very interesting and was alway eager to explore more. Combat is very smooth and the AI (I played on hard) seemed quite intelligent and challenging # most of the time. I didn't get any crashes or low FPS (but maybe I was just lucky) There was a small amount of stuttering a few times but it literally only lasted a few seconds and certainly wasn't game breaking for me.   The Okay: The graphics are okay but nothing that would impress you much. There are definate improvements over the first game but and lot most impressive in actual gameplay but oddly cut scenes seem to be of a lower quality for some reason and there is a very cartoony feel about the visuals which works some times and not others. Powers are pretty cool to use. You will probably want to decide how you want to play the game when upgrading (ie: stealth or assault) otherwise you'll end up with skills you'll never use. I would have like to have seen more options available in terms of abilities to create more customization but what is there works well enough to have an enjoyable expierience.   The Bad: There is not much inovation here. The story and narrative are essentially an rerun of the first game. The maps might be a little bigger but not in any way that you would notice greatly. There is no option to re-visit locations or collect items you did not get initally, and with the story about deciding who controls this vast empire, I would have liked to see more locations and a sense of scale and history of the place, not just Dunwall and Karnaca. As with the first game I would have liked more of an introduction to the world before you are an outlaw so we can see what things are like in good times before they turn bad. There is not a lot of characterization going on. Emily and Corvo are little more fleshed out than the first game but more still needed to be done before I get completely invested in them. The villains are effective in the levels they appear in but I would like to see some appear in more parts of the game and given more developement to seem more of a threat.   Overall: I enjoyed this game a lot though I was a little disappointed there more improvements from the first game were not made. I would give it a 7 ot of 10.   I hope the series continues because I would definately like to see more from this world and characters. In future I would like to see more locations, to show the true scale of this empire and a very different story. I would also not want to see another internal power struggle, an external threat to the empire would make sense such as an invasion by another state.   