Since i have not been blogging for very long, you have not realized everything that has gone into my efforts to break 80 on 18 holes over the past 2+ years since i broke 90.
Today all of those struggles finally came to fruition as i made about a 5 footer for a 78 on the last hole.
I had to go 27 holes to get it, and it was hot out today.
I think 92ish, with more or less no wind.
So i am quite happy right now.
Honestly, i think i will be satisfied with my golf 'career' from now on, as i hold no expectations of breaking 70 or anything.
I am kind of busy right now, so this is a short post, but i just had to get this out there and spread the good news!
how do we meet them?
when do we know they will be important in our lives?
what are the signs that certain people are meant to change you, permanently?
this weekend i found a good friend, and luckily, she is part of my family.
At our mutual cousin's wedding we met again after probably 15 years.
I don't even remember the last time i saw her but it was probably at our north carolina family reunion, eating chicken stew cooked in a large cast iron kettle over an open flame.
Surrounded by family i didn't know very well and in the mist of teenage angst i guess i didn't realize what an amazing person r. Would grow to be.
Funnily too, we lived an hour away from each other at one point in college and never made the trip over the mountains to meet.
R. Currently lives in nyc pursuing her passion, poetry.
She’s been through college, graduate school and now another masters degree for writing.
She's lived almost a whole life since we last talked and i guess, i have too.
We talked about nyc and my passion for that city and about poetry.
We have more in common than i can believe.
She is someone i wish had always been in my life and she was, i just didn't know it.
The cousin's wedding whom we were celebrating was brought about through similar circumstances.
A. And b.
Had gone to high school together, but didn't run in the same circles.
They both went on to college and jobs and lived in various other cities then met again a few years ago while both were back in their hometown.
Their friends say that a.
And b. Are perfect together, they compliment each other, and that they are deeply in love.
Why does it take years, sometimes lifetimes to realize that people who surround you are the ones that will compliment you in ways you can't even fathom?
it is as if we are not ready at times.
Friends, lovers, husbands, and wives may pass us along the street, but until we have fully grown into ourselves, it doesn't matter how often we meet.
When we are ready, hopefully they will be there.
It's as if we are all just ships passing in the night and i'm so thankful when somehow we meet again and our lives begin a new direction.
Sorry, its been so long, but thats not to say there isnt anything exciting going on.
Honestly, i'm just happy to be back in nyc for an extended period (maybe 3 weeks max), so two of those weeks are going to be vacation.
Brandt, who i think is recording drums right now with robin, is going back to chicago, so i will be forced to actually relax and not work on music for a bit.
I have a bit of reading to get caught up on, so thats the plan at the moment.
However, leo v23 has been recruited to perform on one of the newer tracks.
Dead excited about that one.
Chemlab is officially out on january 27th.
It's available for pre-order now, which i was excited to see.
I am really looking forward to the reactions that will flood the chemlab and acumen newsgroups in the weeks that follow the album's release.
I'm supposed to rap with jared tomorrow, so i should know more about what the gameplan is, etc.
For 04. I'm also told he has the new watts album, and i'm determined to scam this unreleased gem from him.
Speaking on unreleased gem's chris connelly, a gentleman if there ever was one, has sent me a copy of his new album night of your life, which is quite simply, nothing short of excellent.
As i mentioned to chris yesterday, this new one, co-written and produced by the amazing chris bruce, shows connelly at the height of his vocal and songwriting powers.
It's a nice balance between his previous solo work in shipwrecked and his recent album private education.
I know a lot of the kids want him kicking and screaming revco style, but goddamn i love this man's solo work beyond belief.
Saw return of the bing last night and it was quite epic and the filmmaking was excellent.
However, as much as i enjoyed it, lost in translation is still my pick of the year (and probably cost the same amount of the the hobbit's rubber feet in the lord of the rings) and now, some rest, but more sooner than later... F shoes in the hall, black blisters to the right, i could have taken you for food, as strawberries dipped in wine.
Your caffeine-free green tea, your perfect library of books and cds, the neatness of your desk, floor and bed, the view from inside your heart.
If i had a body, i would give it to you.
Fast beginning fast ending.
But, as you rationalized--we've known each other for one month already.
I see you standing, taut, on the edge of how, your light brown eyes inside your open palms.
I have knelt down to wash your feet, as if the demons had left me, and i would take your eyes into mine in perfect symmetry of passion and pain if i knew that i had nothing to fear but death.
In your hand, i could have found relief from the tears of brahms' chords, the tenderness of fingers of the world inside a sound of god.
Silence is free and your words are as true as rose petals strewn over the sidewalk cracks awaiting the warm white rain.
Concert gala vendredi 4 juin brahms' concerto no 2 en si bemol majeur, opus 83--if you hear the andante, you will walk with feet steeled for flight above the family of your dreams inside the kiss of life.
(sergei salov played--he won the concours musical international de montreal) peter also loved jacques hetu's 'impromptu pour piano, opus 70 and ravel's alborada del gracioso.
I also loved prokofiev's concerto no.
3 in do major, opus 26.
'where did you get this body?'
you asked me at least twice.
Inside your dreams.
The smooth body of cupid is yours.
Paint us here, before the dance falls.
Troglodyte vituperate sybaritic you played the first act of wagner's parsifal--the cd with peter and the wolf.
Oh, your body was a marble statue of naked cupid.
You told me: 'you are so beautiful.'
but, love cannot be?
why am i so sad?
you are leaving--will i ever see you again, the way you said i would...?
i can't count on it.
No matter what, you will be dear to me always.
You said: my one wish is to 'have a family' and you asked me to live with you over the summer...even to marry you, lol.
Of course, our last contract was to 'go with the flow.'
the feeling i have of tears during brahms' andante.
It will pass like a kite through the leaves, barely touching their veins.
If you have more time to think, you will think against me--though my whole soul is for you as an angel emerging out of the tulip's purple petals into violent dusk.
I cannot have but true feeling for you.
Your warm skin and statuesque form remind me that casanova's figures can be given life.
Galatea lived once, too.
G-d bless you all.
Mother working in the garden with a smile on her face...the birds chirping at 4 a.m. Have a place in this too.
Xox to you, peter.
Of course, your reply contains no such xox.
The joke's on me.
Cruelty is in everyone, a burning desire to vanquish the one who holds your heart.
You have exercised your right, as a tiger would, extinct in your precision, wise in your decision to shut me out.
Why not be prudent with a fat girl like me?
fuck you, too, honey, and take your stupid dick elsewhere.
Have a nice life.
I have the honey ingrained in my leaves, a moment of hell needed to deceive, a heart through a wire festering on a spear of hope.
You have the cleanest cuts, the words protected from pain, the olive skin for the desert sun.
What have i done?
given myself away as a drummer crashes his drum, washed your feet as a sinner washes those of sin.
Bitter, my blisters multiplying in the growing heat, i walk away from the idea of you, almost protected now from further surprise, feeling sick enough to kill what little love i have left.
I should have struck you instead of kissed you, and in the dark, taken your soul to cast into the flames.
What have i now but regrets?
what have i now but the certainty of further pain?
cissy houston to hold harlem prayer vigil for whitney i swear to god, fox's roger friedman is the blackest white man in the entertainment reporting business.
Today he gives us the scoop on whitney houston , with a little blue eyed soul.
He writes: ' whitney houston's mother is taking a stand on her children's substance abuse problems. '
cissy houston , the great r&b and gospel singer, is leading a prayer vigil next monday night in harlem.
In a simple announcement on new york radio station kiss-fm houston called the two-hour event 'mothers praying for healing.'
''let us pray for healing and deliverance,' houston said in the recorded message, 'for our children affected by substance abuse.'
'the event will held from 7 to 9 p.m. At the urllink abyssinian baptist church .
Sources tell me that by monday houston and others involved in the planning should have quite a team of performers, celebrities and clergy who will participate.
My guess is that cissy's cousins dionne and dee dee warwick , as well as many other notables, will attend.'
shouldn't dionne have predicted this?
i mean, isn't that what friends are for?
my guess is al sharpton , lennox lewis , mike tyson , janet jackson , and various members of new edition will be in attendance.
The corsair wishes whitney good luck.
As you can see, the blog title has been changed to celebrate this great kingdom which we live in and will someday rule.
While we know much about our own kingdom of portlandalot i dont think were up to snuff when it comes to understanding the nether-regions of our flat, 300 mile wide rectangle of the known world.
Who would have known the world animal is the beaver?
its true these fanged beasts roam the netherswamps but rarely enter our kingdom.
Our world fish is the chinook salmon and the world shell is the oregon hairy triton, certainly a shell worthy of poseidon himself.
It makes me wonder however, what is the shell of other far off landlocked worlds such as wyoming?
the peanut shell perhaps.
Our world mushroom is the pacific golden chanterelle, a favorite of the local wizardry community.
Our world drink is of course milk, the sweet bovine nectar of life.
Yes this world is certainly full of mystery and ours for the taking once we crush the surrounding barbarian tribes of hillsboria, gresham upon avon, and the southern rival forces of kulongoski the terrible.
And now, the sound of heather screaming in frustration... Once upon a time, i took a bunch of preliminary classes for an education major.
Then i dropped the education part of my major, and concentrated just on theatre.
Fast forward five or so years.
Now that i'm actually wanting to add the education part back onto my major, they've changed the preliminary classes you have to take before you're admitted to the college of education.
For example. The 'intro to the profession' class i once took has since been divided into two classes: 'philosophy of education' and a semester of teacher observation.
You'd think that they'd take everything into consideration, that when i first entered college, i did what was required of me to complete coll of ed entrance.
Not to mention the fact that i spent almost two years substitute teaching, including half a semester in which i was employed full time because the school lost their elementary music teacher.
Well, you'd think wrong.
I go to the education dept.
To see what they would suggest i do-- could they count that as credit and waive the observation semester?
they said to check with my advisor.
So i check with my advisor, who says, 'i can't do anything about it.
Check with the education dept.'
::pulling out hair:: i hate to do this, because it's so juvenile of me, but i may have to play the daddy card.
After all, he got his masters in education there, knows the staff, and since he's very large and imposing, people listen to him and get things done.
It's that or add another couple of semesters onto my college career, which i can't afford, and be forced to graduate sometime in 2007.
I'm not happy.
Wow! how about this...maurice clarett can urllink enter the nfl draft .
Will this be agood thing or a bad thing?
i've read several opinions on this and i think i have to agree, that this is a wrong decision.
The nfl has very clear guidelines and on when they will accept a player and they are not discriminating.
Urllink whatever happened to good common sense ?
here's urllink one guy that thinks it won't make a difference to the nfl.
What do you think?
yesterday was not a terribly good day for me - something i had eaten on the weekend was bothering me the whole day.
I went to the dojo in the morning to train since i had my driving test in the afternoon (to get a nsw license because i still carry my brunei license that doesn't have a photo).
The karate day classes are funny; sometimes there'll be heaps of people and like yesterday, there was 3 of us.
Not that small classes are a bad thing, but i find they lack the energy of a big group.
It also makes it hard for the instructor to conduct a lively class with so few students (in my experience at least).
It sure was in stark contrast to the group of 42 girls from sydney girls who came in after our class!
(they're john's pet project - he approached the school and asked whether they could use a martial arts instructor.)
anyways, these girls elected to do martial arts as a subject and they come into the dojo every monday morning.
That is just m-a-d!
i wish i got to do martial arts in school... *place big sook here* when i got back to penrith and made it to the rta 20 minutes early for my appointment i got the feeling that something was wrong when i realised they had mis-spelled my surname on the booking sheet.
When i brought this to their attention they asked me whether i had a birth certificate on hand because it is procedure to do so when correcting typos or whatever...
Since i didn't have it handy ('yea sure, i keep it in my back pocket so i can show people now and then') i drove back to get it since i had enough time before my appointment with the testing officer.
When i got back they realised that my current license does not have a date of 1st issue on it (well, i renewed it recently so it was issued last year) and they asked me whether i had my 1st license handy...
I mentioned that it had already been copied and was in their system so i didn't need to bring it - to which the answer was, 'well i'm sure you were told you need to bring back all the identification you brought with you when you booked your license test, which includes your 1st license.'
hello, my id wasn't even checked when i booked my license test...
I felt like kicking up a fuss but the weird feeling in my stomach and the general bad vibe i got in the rta prevented me from doing so.
Besides, i like to consider myself a patient person.
Anyways, the testing officer wasn't too concerned with my documentation because she was concerned with who i was rather than the other nitpicky stuff - she said that stuff could be sorted out later after test.
So we do the test and the result when i come back is a... Fail, because i failed to come to a complete stop at an indicated stop sign on the road.
Having driven for so long, you tend to take shortcuts when you do certain things on the road, such as not come to a complete stop but rather slow the car so that it is inching forwards, which makes it easier to get the damn thing moving again (i drive manuals, sue me) so you don't impede the 10 impatient bastards behind you honking like they're late for work the 5th time this week.
Besides, you get good at spotting when there is no traffic whatsoever.
*sigh* so yes i had to book another license test for $40.
I could have used that $40 to buy more shirts.
Or at least my groceries for the week.
Dammit. Today was much better though even though i'm still having trouble getting to sleep before 4am - i slept in till almost noon, which gave my body a much needed rest and leisurely got ready to go to training at 6pm.
Training today was pretty good - i always enjoy kickboxing classes because i don't feel the pressure that comes with wearing a belt in karate.
No one really minds if you're not giving 110% during class and you don't have the army-style discipline in karate that a lot of the pressure comes from (unless shihan takes a kickboxing class, but that's a rarity these days).
My usual partner during kickboxing is martin, who's been teasing me lately about fighting john halford a lot.
Now you see, john halford is an awesome karateka and kickboxer - he's never lost to another australian in karate competition and his record is like 80 wins, 3 losses.
I'm not sure about his kickboxing record, but he does hold a world title in some category under some organisation.
He was fighting in the nationals where i fought at last year and was in the open middleweight (brown / black belts), which he won for the 6th straight year, and i was in intermediate middleweight (yellow / green belts).
I've since graded to brown belt in december and it doesn't take a genius to figure out whose division i'm in this year.
The stuff he (martin) says is quite amusing really.
After i had gone through a sequence of some 160 kicks (blame tony, our trainer), he said, 'that's it, joel!
john halford's shaking in his boots now!'
after class, hector (who's cuban and an olympic judoka) decided to grapple a little with me - now i've only grappled in my life once before, and that was with amir, who's iranian and has been wrestling since he could barely walk.
Obviously, amir smacked me around on the mat that day, but i still managed to hold a bit of my own.
Anyways, amir and hector grappled one day and he made amir tap like a typewriter, or so i hear since i didn't witness it.
Amir himself told me hector was trying to kill him.
(you tap out in wrestling / grappling when someone has you in a hold and you can't get out of it - it's usually accompanied by a lot of pain when force is applied!)
i don't really know how to describe hector - he's not very tall but he is a walking heap of muscle, his upper body would put most bodybuilders to shame.
Think ken shamrock people... (http://www.webcom.com/collectr/wr/images/wpshamrockk.jpg) but bigger!
so yes he's strong, but this guy has got impeccable technique.
I swear he was wiping the floor with me but without using any strength.
He's quick as hell too, i squirmed out of some of his holds but he'd just have me in another one before i could think!
he nearly choked me out on the last one too.
*cough cough* i should seriously start learning some stuff off this guy...
Yes i feel good now after training; maybe it's the endorphin rush, maybe it's the fact i survived hector, but i guess there really is nothing like a good training session to make the world alright again.
:) urllink deep links -- deep links is a group weblog featuring pointers to news articles and weblog posts that spark the interest of urllink eff [electronic frontier foundation] staff members.
We aim to provide a bit of on-the-fly commentary to help contextualize issues, as well as links to useful background resources.
The topics we'll be exploring include intellectual property, privacy, free speech on the net, technology and internet architecture.
The central questions driving these explorations: how does a particular development affect our rights?
and how will it impact our future?
last night was poorly planned.
I've had one of those weeks where everything i do seems to be jinxed.
Things like, i open the freezer and something falls out, so i bend over to pick it up, in the meanwhile the freezer door moves and when i straiten i hit my head.. Hard!
so i put the chicken back in the freezer and it dislodges something else that falls out.... Repeat i can't open something without it spilling, i can't cook without burning either the food or myself and on top of it all i keep forgetting and/or loosing things.
So, i worked late last night, then on the way home i get on the phone with my mom (who i haven't talked to in months) and my battery starts to die.
So i plug in the phone.
Now i get home and i'm stuck inside the car because i can't unplug the phone, and i don't want to hang up because we're in the middle of an ernest talk.
I finally sign off, and get inside.
The kitchen is still a mess from the day before so i do the dishes, then start dinner.
By this time it's after 7:00 pm!
i finally get dinner taken care of and realize dinner dishes have taken over the kitchen and i have to clean it again!
i start on my pies and figure out i'm out of ground ginger...
So it's off to the store (it's now 10:00pm)... Then back home again.
Finally get the pumpkin made and there is a crash in the bedroom - i hear nigel making a commotion.
We finally get the story..
The cat had been on the top bunk of the bed and had jumped off, missjudging her landing.
She landed square on the swiss ball which by the law of physics went one direction while the cat went the other.
Aparently she was so surprised that she didn't 'land on her feet' (she's still a kitten and not entirely coordinated) and was now refusing to put her weight on one hind foot.
Now i'm seeing visions of a vet bill weeks before christmas!
we quickly determined that nothing was broken but could see she was in obvious pain.
She couldn't sit, or find a comforatable position to lay in.
I finally got back to baking (this time burbon chocolate pecan pie) and when i go to find the pie crust i had stayed up until 1:00am the night before making i can't find it!
i'm digging through the fridge and everytime i move one thing, something else falls out ... By this time i'm in tears and had to call in the calvery!
my fiance' held onto me for a while, assured me again that the cat's ok and found my pie crust...
I finished my pie got them both baked and watched the cat walking around putting weight on her foot again, although still limping...
It was 1:00am and there was no way my cardio was getting done!!
so, yellow day bleh!!!
by the way, i woke up this morning and was trying to find the cat.
I finally looked in the last place i would expect her to be...
In the top of the closet.
And there she was, peering over the edge at me, curled up on top on of nigel's t-shirts.
Me thinks she'll be ok. She now shows some stiffness after laying around a while, and won't run on the foot, but walks without limping.
Whew! she's a much more cautious kitty today.
My eats are on plan today.
Though i have no idea how to get my workout in with company showing up at my house this afternoon.
I may go in the bedroom and do a leg workout, hopefully it won't appear too rude.
I'm not above taking time for me...
Even during the holidays.
I did have one epithany today.
I was mulling over my lack of progress this month when it finally hit me.
I haven't been able to run this month!
my cardio has been 'walking quickly' at lunch, some tae bo or sometimes just calastincs....
Since i've asked santa for a treadmill it will be interesting to see if that will move things along again (though the change in diet has had a postive effect) (click the title) (as of august 5th) that's a really interesting site that, instead of viewing polls in terms of the popular vote, breaks them state by state to display them in the way that matters: at the electoral college.
According to their projects, kerry is beating bush by 70 votes in the electoral college.
As you can see though, most of the states bush has are states that he's holding on to very strongly.
He's 'strong' in all of them.
I think whats going on is that, by adopting such a conservative agenda, bush is bringing out lots of new voters.
Problem is: he's bringing these votes out in the conservative strongholds.
He's doing nothing but strengthening and solidifying his base, which can be a good thing for fundraising and campaigning but when it comes to the vote and when it comes to the electoral college, that won't help him.
In this country, elections are decided by a select number of swing voters in a select number of states.
Those voters don't really care about flip-flopping and all that other mud the bush campaign is throwing kerry's way.
Unlike conservative voters, who might come out in droves if there are ammendments and initiatives banning same-sex marriage, bush's increasingly rightist agenda doesn't appeal to them.
But that issue still may be a factor since it'll bring out a number of extra conservatives voters who feel really passionately about the issue.
Many people seem to neither oppose nor support gay marriage.
They just don't care.
They'd rather have it but they probably won't come out to the polls to ensure it happens.
Many of those who are against it are pretty vehemently against it and will come out to vote.
That means more votes for bush.
Or maybe i'm just stereotyping and have no idea what i'm talking about.
If that's the case, i'll just shut up and direct everyone at this urllink state-by-state breakdown of a much more important issue .
There i stood..in that dark cold night...staring right into those eyes who had been watching me as i walked through that dark...endless forest....those eyes that had watched me...that had followed me..all the way through the forest....then i got lost...that's the only reason i saw the eyes on the first place..i felt watched ever since i entered the forest....but i didn't want to look back...so i just went on...but now...i was lost...i got lost and looked all around...but i stopped in the eyes...dark eyes...i could only see some little shine on the...but no color...just shine..and i was freaked...i looked into those eyes..but wasn't scared at all...those eyes seemed to be admiring me...meant no harm...but as i looked at them they drank my essence..i didn't feel anything..i just felt tired...but i wasn't tired...i was just dying...slowly...maybe too slow to notice what was happening...to really know that i wasn't ok..that my life...my essence was taken away from me...because i got lost and looked into those eyes...then i died...after hours of staring...i died...those eyes took all my essence...they took my soul...they took all that made me...well...me... An epiphany fred, you probably should stop reading this right now.
I know how you hate it when i get philosophical.
But i had an epiphany last night.
I was practicing yoga and almost ready to go into the rest pose when it hit me.
I've always said that pain is a warning, but i never really fully understood that, until last night.
I didn't hurt myself or anything.
I was sitting with my legs (almost) in lotus, with my forehead resting on the floor.
And i had this urge in the back of my head to sit up.
I resisted as long as i could, but then i realized that i needed to sit up.
The urge was strong enough to push me up.
In that position, i always think about being a seed buried deep in the dirt.
What makes it want to grow?
it must be that urge to rise.
The hunger and need to change and grow.
You know how an old pair of shoes can just start to hurt?
time for new ones.
Or when those size 6 jeans just don't fit anymore?
time to acknowledge there's been a change, and react with a change of jeans.
On a deeper level, sometimes when we feel like something just isn't right it's because we need to grow, to make a change.
The hard part isn't only noticing the hurt, but also figuring out what's causing the hurt.
Discovering what needs to change can be so very hard.
But, once you figure it out, the ache goes away.
That little urge inside you, bugging the hell out of you, quiets down and goes away when you've taken the right action and made the right change.
Everything changes, and when we don't change too, it just hurts.
Diva out. So i've worked a variety of shifts before but never actual shift work.
Let me tell you people that have not had this wonderful experience for yourself...
It sucks. My mind is so messed up i don't know when it is day and when it is night or wether or not i should be awake or asleep or tired or not.
Time or day, sun or moon, light or dark...
Doesn't matter. I just worked 3 nights (11:30pm-7:30am) then one day off then 1 day (7:30am-3:30pm) then 3 evenings (3:30pm-11:30pm) then one day off then 1 night (11:30pm-7:30am) my mind is in a muddle!
i like my new job a lot.
It is very interesting.
Everything was going great up until my shift tonight when...
Some crazy bastard threw up on my desk...
The joys of working in health care :( i understand now...i guess i did all this time, from today until ever, you're just that one who walks by my side, wanting me or not.
Although it has been a year since then, i couldn't feel it until today.
You look at me through the mirror, watch me bleeding upon the altar of my life and all you could do is stare at my eyes and walk through hell with me.
All i want to know is if this is only but a dream... Are we real?...
The smell of the blood is too intense, i'm lying there...wanting to dream again...i open my eyes and i see you standing right by my side, you say nothing, only watch me bleeding...but that's all you were doing, right?
you're just another illusion of my mind...although i'll never let go as the title suggests i had a great weekend, i'm just sorry that it had to end.
I wont go into all the specifics but i hung out with bunches of friends and family and even saw la plebe play at the phoenix theatre in petaluma.
I got to see my friend from the good ol' state of oregon and her twins.
I think of the twins, charlotte, is starting to like me but maggie still seems pretty wary of me.
I got to see two parades this year, vallejo and benicia's.
I think i can say without too much hometown bias that vallejo's was the better of the two, although both shared quite a few floats.
I have a feeling that is the reason that benicia has it's parade on the third, because if it did it on the fourth many of it's floats would be in vallejo.
Benicia's after parade festivies beat vallejo's handsdown though.
In vallejo the vallejo symphony plays after the parade and there is like a mini-crafts fair.
In benicia there is literally dancing in the street as a rock band plays various other bands hits.
I saw no crafts booths, but there were a few food stands.
There is one thing that benicia is missing and that is a ducky durby.
I know i bought a duck from a person in vallejo's parade, thought i didn't go to the actual race.
Maybe my duck won, that would kick so much ass.
I would even love to get fourth place....hmmm, i don't know what happened to my duck ticket though, well they have my name and address.
Well, this was a great weekend and i'm glad that i got to spend it with family, old friends, new friends, and people that are just becoming friends.
If every weekend were like this life would be grand and almost any lame ass job would be bearable because i would know that i had the weekend and great friends and family to look forward to.
I was a weedy child.
This wasn't so much an accident of physiology, more an unnecessary attempt by the world to fully cast me in the role of maths geek.
Of course, at that age i wasn't of a mind to worry; but eventually i decided that i was hideous.
There is one particular family holiday where all the photos have me hiding in the shadows, for fear of nothing less than being seen.
And then i grew up a little; and found out that whilst i would never be very well built, so to speak, i had quietly grown to a respectable height amongst my peers.
I started putting more stock not in how i looked but how i carried myself; i started losing my clumsiness.
And now whilst i'm still not much to look at, my body ususlly does what i ask of it, what i need it to.
I got comfortable with myself, i accepted what i was never going to be.
Although i could never be a nudist, and for two very good reasons: i) the cold, and ii) my need for pockets.
And did i mention, the cold?
i generally have lots of things in my pockets; i find it is one of the better things about men's clothes: there is no 'line' to ruin, as such.
So i feel if naturism was to become compulsory, i'd need some sort of utility belt.
And a nipple piercing to stop me losing my keys, obviously, but firstly a utility belt.
Being naked is no excuse for not having a grappling hook handy... Man, i'm tired.
N. This is kind of a continuation of a previos story line in my blog and has to do with my job.
If my readers will remember i have been in trouble with my boss for not doing a good job and coming in late and basically being a bad horrible person.
Well imagine my surprise when i came to work today to find a 'spirit award' sitting on my desk.
These are given out to employees that capture the spirit of the hospital workplace and go above and beyond what is expected of them.
Do they know who they gave it to?
the best part is that it can be handed out by any manager and i got one from my bosses boss.
This doesn't change my work situation at all, but man was i surprised.
I was thinkin back to a poem i wrote a while ago, thought i had saved a copy...and now can't find it...i am going to try to get it back out of the deep recesses of my brain though.
Too bad it never found it's way to anyone who appreciated it though lol.
If time was a river if time was a river that flowed to the sea and love was the vessel that would carry me i'd pack it with patience with laughter with care with passion and friendship and take some to spare if time was a river that flowed to the sea and love was the vessel that would carry me i'd need someone steadfast to be on my crew and if i had get to choose, i plan to choose you ok that's not exactly the original but not bad if i do say so myself.
I should dig up my old poems and get them on the blog...might be good for trip down my dark and twisted memory lane.
I was actually missing work today, but know i am not ready to go back just yet.
A couple more weeks and i should feel better able to face the world head on again.
It's been nice to just kind of see where the day takes me, but then i think about all those people i am not getting to help.
I sometimes shake my head at the apathy so many of my co-workers have...then again so many people in the world are apathetic.
When i get to hear 'wow thank you soooo much why has no one ever taken that time to explain this to me?'
or 'you are a dear you took all my worries away' at least i know for the few minutes that person talked to me they felt like someone, somewhere cared about who they were and what they needed.
Someone told me i had too much to give one time, isn't that what it's about though??
you give of yourself to the right people...and they give back to you...not rocket science yannow?
or give the right things to the right people.
I almost wonder if it takes a stronger person to accept that you deserve to be given back to...instead of feeling like you constantly are going to 'owe' something to someone.
Cheers!
