Ad sales boost time warner profit quarterly profits at us media giant timewarner jumped 76% to $1.13bn (£600m) for the three months to december, from $639m year-earlier.
The firm, which is now one of the biggest investors in google, benefited from sales of high-speed internet connections and higher advert sales.
Timewarner said fourth quarter sales rose 2% to $11.1bn from $10.9bn.
Its profits were buoyed by one-off gains which offset a profit dip at warner bros, and less users for aol.
Time warner said on friday that it now owns 8% of search-engine google.
But its own internet business, aol, had has mixed fortunes.
It lost 464,000 subscribers in the fourth quarter profits were lower than in the preceding three quarters.
However, the company said aol's underlying profit before exceptional items rose 8% on the back of stronger internet advertising revenues.
It hopes to increase subscribers by offering the online service free to timewarner internet customers and will try to sign up aol's existing customers for high-speed broadband.
Timewarner also has to restate 2000 and 2003 results following a probe by the us securities exchange commission (sec), which is close to concluding.
Time warner's fourth quarter profits were slightly better than analysts' expectations.
But its film division saw profits slump 27% to $284m, helped by box-office flops alexander and catwoman, a sharp contrast to year-earlier, when the third and final film in the lord of the rings trilogy boosted results.
For the full-year, timewarner posted a profit of $3.36bn, up 27% from its 2003 performance, while revenues grew 6.4% to $42.09bn.
"our financial performance was strong, meeting or exceeding all of our full-year objectives and greatly enhancing our flexibility," chairman and chief executive richard parsons said.
For 2005, timewarner is projecting operating earnings growth of around 5%, and also expects higher revenue and wider profit margins.
Timewarner is to restate its accounts as part of efforts to resolve an inquiry into aol by us market regulators.
It has already offered to pay $300m to settle charges, in a deal that is under review by the sec.
The company said it was unable to estimate the amount it needed to set aside for legal reserves, which it previously set at $500m.
It intends to adjust the way it accounts for a deal with german music publisher bertelsmann's purchase of a stake in aol europe, which it had reported as advertising revenue.
It will now book the sale of its stake in aol europe as a loss on the value of that stake.sundance to honour foreign films international films will be given the same prominence as us films at next year's sundance film festival, with movies dominated by the theme of war.
The independent film festival will feature two new international cinema competitions, during its 20-30 january season in utah.
Forty-two films will debut at sundance, including the liberace of baghdad by british director sean mcallister.
The prestigious festival was founded by actor robert redford in 1981.
"we have always had an international component, but from next year they will enter a jury competition," festival director geoffrey gilmore said.
"we wanted to give world cinema more emphasis and have now put it on par with the american dramatic and documentary competitions."
twelve films competing in the new world cinema documentary category focus on countries and people under siege.
The liberace of baghdad features an iraqi pianist hiding in a hotel as he waits for a visa, while finnish film the three rooms of melancholia looks at the war in chechnya.
Shake hands with the devil: the journey of romeo dallaire tells of a un mission to rwanda during the 1994 genocide, while french-israeli production wall looks at israel's controversial security wall separating it from the palestinian territories.
The 16 films competing in the new world cinema dramatic category include works from germany, south korea, angola, china, denmark and australia.
Several hollywood stars feature in the festival's american independent drama category, including keanu reeves and benjamin bratt.
Vince vaughn stars in quirky movie thumbsucker while 21 grams actress naomi watts plays a budding hollywood actress in ellie parker.
The top grand jury prize at this year's festival went to low budget sci-fi thriller primer, written and directed by shane carruth.
Morgan spurlock earned the directing award for super size me, which became an international box office hit.
Tory candidate quits over remark a conservative election challenger is quitting after being quoted as wanting a "period of creative destruction in the public services".
Danny kruger, who also works in the tory research unit, had been due to take on tony blair in sedgefield.
He says his remark last week was misrepresented but he will not contest the election for fear of damaging the conservative cause.
Tory leader michael howard accepted his decision "with regret".
Mr kruger was quoted in the guardian newspaper saying: "we plan to introduce a period of creative destruction in the public services."
in a statement, the party said the comment had been taken out of context.
"he fully supports the party's policies on, and approach to, the public services," said the statement.
"however, in order to avoid any further misrepresentation of his views and any damage to the party, he has decided not to stand in the sedgefield constituency at the next election."
mr kruger is continuing in his job at the tory campaign headquarters.
Labour election coordinator alan milburn claimed mr kruger had exposed the tory agenda for £35bn of cuts to public services.
Mr milburn said: "he is not some unknown hopeful fighting an unwinnable seat.
He is a man who has worked at the heart of conservative policy development... "his claim that the tories were planning 'a period of creative destruction in the public services' is not a rogue claim.
"it is the authentic and shocking voice of the conservative party.
It reveals the true picture of what they would do."
wife swap makers sue us 'copycat' the british producers of us wife swap are taking legal action against a show they claim is "a blatant and wholescale copycat" of their programme.
Rdf media, which makes the show for us network abc, has filed a damages claim for $18 million (£9.25 million) against fox's trading spouses.
Abc bought the rights to the british show, which was first aired in 2003 and became a hit on channel 4.
The us network is not part of the claim, but has supported rdf's action.
"we respect our producing partners' right to protect their intellectual property in whatever manner they deem most appropriate," said abc in a statement.
A spokesman for fox said it had not seen the details of the legal action and could not comment.
Their show was first screened in june, and was criticised in the press for its similarities to wife swap.
Abc originally planned to call their programme trading moms, but changed it to avoid confusion with the fox version.
Earlier this year, the nbc network claimed that fox's boxing show the next great champ had been hurriedly produced to ensure its programme was the first to be screened.
Nbc alleged that boxing regulations had been violated, but failed in their attempt to have the show pulled.
The fox show proved a ratings flop, while nbc's the contender is due to begin in february.
Boogeyman takes box office lead the low-budget horror film boogeyman has knocked robert de niro thriller hide and seek from the top spot at the uk box office.
The film, in which a young man is forced to revisit a traumatic childhood experience, took £788,439 in its first three days on release.
Hide and seek, which was knocked off the top of the us box office by boogeyman last month, fell one place.
Oscar nominee hotel rwanda was also a new entry in the chart, at number five.
The film, which scored oscar nominations for don cheadle and british actress sophie okonedo, made £507, 596 in its first week of nationwide release.
Comedy sequel meet the fockers and shall we dance?, starring jennifer lopez and richard gere, completed the top five.
Clint eastwood's million dollar baby re-entered the charts at number eight, following its recent success at the oscars.
The boxing drama, which won four awards including best film and best director, has made £4.4m to date.
Two other new entries, a remake of the 1965 film flight of the phoenix, and the teen comedy harold and kumar get the munchies, debuted outside the top 10.
Savvy searchers fail to spot ads internet search engine users are an odd mix of naive and sophisticated, suggests a report into search habits.
The report by the us pew research center reveals that 87% of searchers usually find what they were looking for when using a search engine.
It also shows that few can spot the difference between paid-for results and organic ones.
The report reveals that 84% of net users say they regularly use google, ask jeeves, msn and yahoo when online.
Almost 50% of those questioned said they would trust search engines much less, if they knew information about who paid for results was being hidden.
According to figures gathered by the pew researchers the average users spends about 43 minutes per month carrying out 34 separate searches and looks at 1.9 webpages for each hunt.
A significant chunk of net users, 36%, carry out a search at least weekly and 29% of those asked only look every few weeks.
For 44% of those questioned, the information they are looking for is critical to what they are doing and is information they simply have to find.
Search engine users also tend to be very loyal and once they have found a site they feel they can trust tend to stick with it.
According to pew research 44% of searchers use just a single search engine, 48% use two or three and a small number, 7%, consult more than three sites.
Tony macklin, spokesman for ask jeeves, said the results reflected its own research which showed that people use different search engines because the way the sites gather information means they can provide different results for the same query.
Despite this liking for search sites half of those questioned said they could get the same information via other routes.
A small number, 17%, said they wouldn't really miss search engines if they did not exist.
The remaining 33% said they could not live without search sites.
More than two-thirds of those questioned, 68%, said they thought that the results they were presented with were a fair and unbiased selection of the information on a topic that can be found on the net.
Alongside the growing sophistication of net users is a lack of awareness about paid-for results that many search engines provide alongside lists of websites found by indexing the web.
Of those asked, 62% were unaware that someone has paid for some of the results they see when they carry out a search.
Only 18% of all searchers say they can tell which results are paid for and which are not.
Said the pew report: "this finding is ironic, since nearly half of all users say they would stop using search engines if they thought engines were not being clear about how they presented paid results."
commenting mr macklin said sponsored results must be clearly marked and though they might help with some queries user testing showed that people need to be able to spot the difference.
Losing yourself in online gaming online role playing games are time-consuming, but enthralling flights from reality.
But are some people taking their fantasy lives too seriously?
when video game world of warcraft hit the shops in europe last week fans wrote in to the bbc website to express their delight - and to offer a warning.
"an addiction to a game like this is far more costly in time than any substance could impair - keep track of time," wrote travis anderson, in texas.
Some of the comments were humorous: "this game is so good i'm not going to get it, there's no way i could limit the hours i'd spend playing it," wrote charles macintyre, from england.
But some struck a more worrying tone about the massively multiplayer online role playing game (mmorpg): "'you need to get out more' could be the motto of any mmorpg.
Shame they are getting more popular, as you know this problem is just going to mushroom," wrote stuart stanton-davies, in huddersfield.
Scare-mongering articles about "addictive video games" have existed since the days the first game of pong stopped everyone from working at the atari offices.
Gaming is like any other pastime - it can quickly become an unhealthy obsession, whether it is spending too much time in the gym, in front of the television, or reading poetry.
Unfortunately, gaming and addiction is a far too easy association to make.
However, stories about gamers spending 10 to 15 hours a day in front of some video games are becoming more frequent.
And the impact that is having on their families is quite distressing for some.
Massively multiplayer online role playing games - mmorpgs - allow thousands of gamers to share a common experience of sharing fantasy or science fiction worlds.
The scope of these games - like warcraft, everquest, ultima among others - is epic, and exploration and adventure is almost infinite.
Part of the "problem" is grinding - by which gamers have to perform long-winded, mindless tasks, to bring up their levels and gain access to more adventure.
Such open-endedness brings with it a desire to keep playing; not for no reason is everquest (eq) nicknamed evercrack.
E hayot, writing in the culture blogzine print culture, said recently: "i used to play the online role-playing game everquest a lot.
"by 'a lot', i mean probably 15 to 20 hours a week on average, and on weeks where i didn't have to work, as many as 30 or 40 hours."
he says that in the world of online gaming such behaviour "wasn't that unusual; lots of people i knew in the game played eq that much".
"you lie; you don't go into work because you "had stuff to do at home"; you cancel or refuse invitations to dinner, you spend much less time watching tv (a good thing, presumably)," he wrote, explaining how everquest took over his time.
He quit the game, he says, because he realised life was more fun than everquest.
Let us be clear - such obsession is rare.
But the huge growth in online gaming means a growth in the numbers of people who take their passion for a hobby too far.
Almost 400,000 people bought a copy of world of warcraft in the first two days on sale earlier this month.
Only a fraction will descend into obsessives.
The thoughts of families and friends of gamers who have been affected by everquest can be found on one blog everquest daily grind.
Jane, who runs the website, compiles a chronicle of heart-rending stories.
"i am actually convinced at this point that there are more than 'some' people who spend more times in mmoprgs than in reality," she said.
One unnamed correspondent - all are anonymous - wrote: "on the rare nights when my husband does come to bed at the same time as i do, i find that i am so used to sleeping by myself that it is difficult to get to sleep with another body laying next to me.
"i can't talk to him while he is playing.
There is absolutely no point as he doesn't hear me or is so distracted that i get a 'ummm...
Ya' a few minutes after i ask him a question."
"gaming widows" has become a comedic term for women who have been shut out by male gamers.
But for some it is not in the least funny.
Another correspondent wrote: "i believe that he is addicted to the online gaming, and that is the cause of his depression and restlessness."
and some of them are even sadder: "today our son was five days old.
"the sad truth is my husband spent 11 hours today playing his warcraft game.
He did not interact with our sweet tiny baby because there were important quests waiting online."
video game fans often complain that their hobby is misunderstood or marginalised.
But as gaming becomes ever more mainstream, and games ever more immersive, there will be no hiding place for social problems.
I wish 30-40 hours a week was unusual but i think it probably isn't.
An 11 hour stretch isn't that surprising - i've known people to play 15+ hours at a stretch.
I know of people who are spending their week's holiday from work playing warcraft.
I know of people who would play ever[crack] in shifts...waking at 3am to take over from their friends and resume waiting for an item they 'needed' to appear.
I understand that the key sign of an addiction is if you alter your life around it rather than fit it into your life.
By all standards many of us are addicts.
So is the solution to force ourselves to stop playing..or do we just need to make real life a bit more interesting?
sadly with all the talk of people becoming obsessed with gaming, i find myself longing to have the time to join them.
I have been in a long term relationship for over 4 years - since that began, games have become more and more complex.
And more and more so i find i have less and less time to play them, with and marriage and work being the main drag on my time.
I think the line between playing a game a lot and a gaming addiction is really quite distinct.
I play games a lot, definately over 20 hours a week, but i don't go missing work or other commitments in order to play games.
I have, about a year ago, deleted every game on my computer.
Rpgs are the worst - the real world fades and all your worries sorround a new magic staff or mighty sword.
Unlike books, or perhaps even tv, you gain absolutely nothing.
When you stop playing you're at the same point as when you started; all the achievements of your 10 hour session are irretrievably locked in the game and, since you've gained nothing in the real world, you may as well pile on more achievement in the fake one.
Despite having little monetary value, the "rewards" and encouragement offered by these mmorpgs is enough to hook games for hours daily.
If only business could learn to leverage that very simply human need for easily measurable progress and recognition.
Perhaps the unhealthily obsessed simply need more recognition for their achievements in reality?
my advice to gaming widows is "if you can't beat 'em, join 'em".
That is, try playing it yourself.
If he wants to play as well, well at least you'll be together somewhere...
I was an addict and it cost me my relationship.
I still play now, but without the guilt , hehe, how long have i played in one sitting?
from morning till the early hours of the next day, the birds were singing out side and i had to hobble to the bath room cos my bladder was so full i was in pain, i would hardly eat, perhaps some toast, smoke endlessly and drink.
Now, thankfully the fascination has worn off and i have a girlfriend but still no job.
For the most part online gaming give me an adiction to illusory achievement, and as there is no end in sight you keep going for the mirage of the ultimate.
Obsessive behaviour is, of course, always cause for concern, but it always bothers me when articles about gaming talk in terms of "reality".
Obviously, somebody who spends thirty hours a week playing everquest has a problem.
This problem, however, has nothing to do with a dysfunctional sense of reality.
An obsessive eq player does not consider the game to be "real" any more than - for example - an obsessive automotive tinkerer considers their car to be human.
If mmorpgs have a unique danger, in terms of encouraging obsessive behaviour, it is not that they create an absorbing virtual world, but rather that they can be easily accessed 24/7.
The problem here does not lie with the nature of gaming, but with the nature of modern 24 hour culture.
The problem with these so called mmorpgs is that you can never really complete them, there's always another quest to do.
A few of my friends have only had about 10 hours sleep since it was released friday... Championship manager consumed my life for years.
One particular session started at about 2pm on a sunday, paused for a brief sleep at 5am on the monday and after visit to university for classes restarted at about midday for another 10 hour session.
The people who tend to hark on about about the problems of "hardcore gaming" seem to be those who have rarely allowed themselves to become immersed in a game.
I would expect their perspective to change if they were to do that.
I used to be an everquest addict while i was in college.
It came to the point where the gaming world felt more real than the real one.
I failed alot of my courses and was able to barely graduate.
I was lucky that i came to my senses when i did, others were less fortunate and dropped out of college.
Now that i am holding a job, i avoid online rpgs like the plague.
When i was made redundant i told my partner i had a new job for three months whilst every day i played everquest from 7:30am till 5:pm.
When she came home i pretended i had just got in as well, hence justifying playing it all evening.
I have since quit playing mmorpg and have a good job.
When i got to the point where i was eating my dinner in front of the pc i realised things were getting silly so i'm trying not to spend so much time on there.
It's not easy.
I feel as if i've got a real addiction going on here.
For me the problem is that i love to complete a goal.
Once it is completed that is it, i am finished, time to move on.
I become obsessed to complete the goal, so from that standpoint it is an addiction.
In a game where you will never complete an "ultimate" goal, well it would be like falling into a black pit.
It is easier to escape into a controlled fantasy world than face reality at times - in other words the goal offered in the pc game are "easier" and more fun than the real world.
Pretty scary implications if you think about it.
I can't buy world of warcraft as it would destroy my marrage, i just know it!!
i played star wars galaxies for about a year and can attest to the addictiveness of these games.
They are all engineered in such a way that early on in the game you progress quickly, but this progress becomes exponentially slower, requiring more and more time to reach the next level.
I'm sad to say that at the peak of my addiction i was spending entire weekends in front of my monitor, slowly building up my character, stopping only for food and toilet breaks.
Thankfully i made a clean break, and actually managed to sell my jedi account for £800 - which is my only sanity check in an otherwise completely unproductive time vacuum.
Seven years ago, i began playing ultima online.
This game dominated 2 years of my life.
They were 2 wonderful years and i still have vivid memories of the experiences and friends i had.
Online gaming can be a world of escapism where you can be yourself without fear of the thoughts of others.
Something that cannot always be achieved in the day to day running of a normal life.
Whilst i would warn against people giving to much of there life to these games, i believe they are a better way to spend your time than say watching tv.
Gaming is addictive and should be made a recognised addiction.
When i was single i used to play upto eight hours a night after work every night for about a year, building up my stats, completing evermore quests and battling ogres.
But somehow i found time to get out, even met someone and got married!
has my life changed?
hell no! i still cast spells and battle till the early hours of the morning.
On with the fun!
online gaming should be enjoyed just as much as you would enjoy watching television, or going to the cinema or the pub with your mates.
Many people use recreational drugs on an occasional basis and are able to lead succesfull lives with families, relationships and good careers.
A minority allow drugs to take over and destroy their lives and become addicted.
According to this article the same is true of mmorpgs.
The message to the government is clear, either legalise drugs, or outlaw online gaming!!
sounds like there are some sad stories here - and i can believe them all.
I play alot of warcraft myself, and know full well how addictive it is.
I am resolute that it will not take over my life.
It certainly gets in the way though.
I think that some people simply do not know how to draw this line, or lack the willpower to stop themselves stepping over it.
I think i'm obsessed with gaming in general, i spend far too much time playing games like everquest 2 and football manager rather than going out and interacting with real people and when i do try to, i'm always thinking in the back if my mind that i'd rather be in front of the computer winning the league with cambridge united.
I am obsessed with online role playing games.
It's not so much quests but it has the adrenaline of a real life situation - goals to achieve etc.
I spend about five hours per day online playing it and i rarely get more than four to five hours sleep before getting up for work the next morning... As many of the players spend their time in mmorpgs rather than in front of the tv i fail to see how it will affect players social lives negatively.
Furthermore these types of games contain a huge social aspect, whereas other games and some other pursuits (such as being a couch potato) the players could be indulging in are solitary by nature.
These games are like most things -- too much of anything is a bad thing, but as long as you can walk away from the computer to do other things too, they can be great fun.
Living in korea at the moment, they have lots pc bangs (internet cafes).
Nearly most of south koreans are addicted to online games, and one korean died because of the lack of food and water he had through playing online games.
I play xbox live every day.
I find my self lying and rescheduling everything around my gaming fix.
The longest i played was a 24 hour straight session.
I know i play for to long but it's an obsession that i can't control.
Can you reccomend a counsellor - this is not a wind up...
But something i'm increasingly concerned with... Me and my mate play online for an hour or two a day, we're both aware of how much time can disappear by sitting in front of a tv, trying to 'frag' some individual.
It's getting the balance between getting home and relasing the stress of a day by an hour or so gaming, and enjoying 'real' life...
I bought the us version of world of warcraft when it came out.
The longest period i played was 23 hrs straight.
I gave up the game after a month because it was so addictive, but have subsequently just bought the european version (couldn't help myself).
In future, i'm going to regulate my time far more strictly.
Great game! having played mmorpg games for some years i agree that these type of games can be life sucking.
But my concern is for the younger generation of gamers that play for hours on end in an adult enviroment.
Most mmorpg games you need a credit card to play but i dont think parents know just what they are letting there children into.
Unless there is undeniable medical proof that staring at a computer screens for hours at a time can damage a person&#191;s health, you can expect this not to decline but to get worse.
These people are pathetic.
They need to get off their machines and notice that our world is being swiftly overcome by issues and troubles that make the trifling worries of and "online universe" absolutely meaningless.
24hours, when i was a kid at school and i was on half term, ultima online was the game, ahhhh them was the days !
lol candidate resigns over bnp link a prospective candidate for the uk independence party (ukip) has resigned after admitting a "brief attachment" to the british national party(bnp).
Nicholas betts-green, who had been selected to fight the suffolk coastal seat, quit after reports in a newspaper that he attended a bnp meeting.
The former teacher confirmed he had attended the meeting but said that was the only contact he had with the group.
Mr betts-green resigned after being questioned by the party's leadership.
A ukip spokesman said mr betts-green's resignation followed disclosures in the east anglian daily times last month about his attendance at a bnp meeting.
"he did once attend a bnp meeting.
He did not like what he saw and heard and will take no further part of it," the spokesman added.
A meeting of suffolk coastal ukip members is due to be held next week to discuss a replacement.
Mr betts-green, of woodbridge, suffolk, has also resigned as ukip's branch chairman.
Takeover offer for sunderland fc bob murray, chairman of sunderland fc, has launched a £1.5m ($2.8m) bid for the club after buying broadcaster bskyb's stake in the business.
Mr murray is already sunderland's leading shareholder, holding a 37.6% stake, and now hopes to take full control of the championship side.
Mr murray said the club would find it easier to attract more investment by having a single majority owner.
Sunderland delisted its shares from the stock market in august.
A lifetime sunderland supporter and board director since 1984, mr murray agreed to buy bskyb's 4.76% holding in the wearside club on tuesday - taking his stake to 42.3%.
Under stock market rules, mr murray is required to make an offer for the remaining shares that he does not already own at the same price paid for the bskyb holding of 31p a share.
Should the offer be fully accepted, mr murray said he expected to pay a maximum of £1.53m for the remaining shares.
He also stressed that fans who wanted to keep in touch with the club's financial affairs could retain a small number of shares, enabling them to attend annual meetings.
"the football sector is experiencing significant changes and uncertainty," mr murray said in a statement.
"the recent speculation surrounding malcolm glazer and manchester united has shown the unsettling effect possible where there are a number of disparate interests," he added.
"i believe that this offer will strengthen the company and remove the potential for that type of uncertainty."
sunderland were relegated from the premiership in 2003 but are currently pushing for promotion.
The club managed to reduce its losses last year from £20.6m to £1.2m after selling a host of leading players.
However, the club's turnover dropped sharply from £42.5m to £28.5m over the same period, because of a fall in broadcast revenues.
Bskyb bought its stake in sunderland in 1999 as part of a five year media partnership deal.
The deal expired last month.
Anti-spam laws bite spammer hard the net's self-declared spam king is seeking bankruptcy protection.
Scott richter, the man behind optinrealbig.com and billions of junk mail messages, said lawsuits had forced the company into chapter 11.
Optinrealbig was fighting several legal battles, most notably against microsoft, which is pushing for millions of dollars in damages.
The company said filing for chapter 11 would help it try to resolve its legal problems but still keep trading.
Listed as the third biggest spammer in the world by junk mail watchdog spamhaus, optinrealbig was sued in december 2003 for sending mail messages that violated anti-spam laws.
The lawsuit was brought by microsoft and new york attorney general eliot spitzer who alleged that mr richter and his accomplices sent billions of spam messages through 514 compromised net addresses in 35 countries.
According to microsoft the messages were sent via net addresses owned by the kuwait ministries of communication and finance, several korean schools, the seoul municipal boramae hospital, and the virginia community college system.
Mr richter settled the attorney general case in july 2004 but the legal fight with microsoft is continuing.
Microsoft is seeking millions in dollars in damages from optinrealbig under anti-spam laws that impose penalties for every violation.
In a statement announcing the desire to seek bankruptcy protection the company said it: "could not continue to contend with legal maneuvers (sic) by a number of companies across the country, including microsoft, and still run a viable business."
in its chapter 11 filing optinrealbig claimed it had assets of less than $10m (£5.29m) but debts of more than $50m which included the $46m that microsoft is seeking via its lawsuit.
"the litigation has been a relentless distraction with which to contend," said steven richter, legal counsel for optinrealbig.
"but, make no mistake, we do expect to prevail."
for its part optinrealbig describes itself as a premier internet marketing company and said the move to seek chapter 11 was necessary to let it keep trading while sorting out its legal battles.
Spain coach faces racism inquiry spain's football federation has initiated disciplinary action against national coach luis aragones over racist comments about thierry henry.
If found guilty aragones could lose his job or face a fine of about £22,000.
The federation had initially declined to take action against aragones after comments he made during a national team training session in october.
But its president angel maria villar changed his mind after a request by spain's anti-violence commission.
Aragones insisted the comments, made to henry's arsenal club-mate jose antonio reyes, were meant to motivate the player, and were not intended to be offensive.
"i never intended to offend anyone, and for that reason i have a very easy conscience," he said at the time.
"i'm obliged to motivate my players to get the best results.
"as part of that job, i use colloquial language, with which we can all understand each other within the framework of the football world. "
england's players made a point of wearing anti-racism t-shirts when training before their friendly against spain in madrid last month.
But the storm increased following racist chanting by spanish fans at england's black players during the game, which spain won 1-0.
Spain's minister of sport jaime lissavetzky was quick to give his backing to the federation's decision.
"everyone who has a public function has to consider their declarations, and make sure they do not give a negative image," he said.
"we are going to have zero tolerance in questions of racism."
top tories on lib dem 'hit list' the liberal democrats are aiming to unseat a string of top tories - including leader michael howard - at the next general election.
Mr howard's seat is at the top of the liberal democrats' list.
Others targeted include oliver letwin, david davis and theresa may, lib dem's elections chief lord rennard said.
He said it was "nothing personal" but that "very many of the prominent conservatives" had slender leads in seats where the lib dems were second.
In 2001, michael howard won the folkestone & hythe seat with 20,645 votes, compared to 14,738 for the liberal democrat candidate peter carroll, giving the tory leader a majority of 5,907.
Asked if this amounted to the party's much vaunted "decapitation strategy" lord rennard said it was not a term he had ever used.
But he urged labour supporters to vote tactically to remove prominent conservatives.
"i just don't think labour voters in these sort of seats could resist the temptation to use their votes effectively to remove a conservative."
he denied this strategy was opportunism, insisting the lib dem's policies on issues such as tuition fees, the council tax and free care for the elderly appealed "to all sides of the political spectrum".
"we are in favour of tactical voting as long as the tactic is to vote liberal democrat," he added.
A conservative spokesperson said: "the liberal democrats can talk all they like about strategy.
The problem the liberal democrats face is that a large number of lib dem voters do not agree with their policies.
"we will be pointing out how they are soft on crime, how they support higher taxes, their opposition to controlled immigration and support for giving europe more control over our lives".
Wolves appoint hoddle as manager glenn hoddle will be unveiled as the new wolves manager on tuesday.
The club have confirmed that the former england coach will be unveiled as the successor to dave jones at a news conference at molineux at 1100 gmt.
Hoddle has been linked with a return to former club southampton but wolves have won the race for his services.
He has been out of the game since being sacked at spurs in september 2003 and worked alongside wolves caretaker boss stuart gray at southampton.
Hoddle began his managerial career as player-boss with swindon before moving on to chelsea and then taking up the england job.
His spell in charge of the national side came to an end after the 1998 world cup when he made controversial remarks about the disabled in a newspaper interview.
The 47-year-old later returned to management with southampton, where he again succeeded jones - as he has now done at wolves.
He engineered an upturn in saints' fortunes before being lured to white hart lane by tottenham - the club where he made his name as a player.
That relationship turned sour at the start of the last campaign and he left the london club early last season.
Since then he has applied unsuccessfully for the post of france manager and had also been linked with a return to southampton.
Wolves are currently 17th in the championship and have a home game against millwall on tuesday.
Big guns ease through in san jose top-seeded americans andy roddick and andre agassi survived minor scares to reach the last eight of the sap open.
Agassi endured early problems against left-handed dane kenneth carlsen before sealing a 7-5 6-1 victory.
And world number three roddick dropped a set to korean player hyung-taik lee, before pulling out a 6-3 3-6 6-2 win in san jose, california.
Seventh seed jurgen melzer came through 6-3 6-3 against xavier malisse - winner in delray beach last week.
Frenchman cyril saulnier, meanwhile, fired 19 aces to secure a 6-1 7-6 win over czech qualifier tomas zib.
Roddick broke a racket in frustration in the third game of the second set.
And afterwards was unimpressed with his form.
"i'm not playing great," he said.
"but i'm through and i'm going to keep battling.
"a lot of people are under the assumption that it's easy to play well every week and it's not."
it is the 12th time in 13 appearances at the event that agassi, now 34, has progressed to the quarter-final stage.
He came from 0-40 down in the opening game to hold serve and gradually wore carlsen down after attacking his backhand.
Agassi also employed several lobs and charged to the net to unsettle the 31-year-old dane, ranked 88th in the world.
"as the match went on, i got real patient and waited for my opportunities and felt pretty good," said agassi.
Millions 'to lose textile jobs' millions of the world's poorest textile trade workers will lose their jobs under new trade rules to be introduced in the new year, a charity has warned.
The world trade organisation (wto) is to end its multi-fibre agreement (mfa) on midnight of 31 december.
Christian aid condemned the move, saying it would see almost a million jobs in bangladesh alone being axed.
However, supporters of the change claim it will mean increased efficiency and lower costs for western consumers.
It will also see more jobs created in india and china, advocates argue.
The wto said that many developing countries support the end of quotas and stressed that funding was available to countries such as bangladesh to help them make the transition to a fully liberalised market.
"there will be a period of adjustment required," said wto spokesman keith rockwell.
"some countries will do better than others but there is no one who is suggesting that no developing country will do well out of this.
"some countries where it may appear that orders will dry up have seen orders surging and there are many companies who will continue with existing trading relationships."
christian aid has called on british firms not to simply "cut and run" but look after their workers, in a new report called rags to riches to rags.
It added that with few employment alternatives available many sacked garment workers could end up in far worse jobs - with some of the mainly female workers forced into the sex trade.
The wto itself has warned that as many as 27 million jobs could be lost as a result of liberalisation in the textile industry.
Some of the world's fastest developing countries which rely on textile exports to build growth - for example in bangladesh textiles account for almost 85% of the country's exports and the industry employs around 1.5 million people.
The mfa pact has helped developing countries get a bigger share of the world market.
"the losers in this new trade landscape will be some of the most vulnerable workers in countries such as bangladesh, cambodia, sri lanka and nepal," andrew pendleton, christian aid's head of trade policy, said.
"they will be hard-pressed to cope when garment industries there lose their protection.
"we are deeply concerned that the new year will spell misery for huge numbers of garment workers."
the wto said there was no consenus among its members to retain the quotas and emphasised that funding was available to countries such as bangladesh to help them adjust to the liberalised market.
It added that the impact of the changes for workers most affected by the shake-up had not been considered, adding such seismic changes to policy should "put the interests of poor people first - rather than simply aiming to liberalise markets at any cost".
While the current mfa was not perfect, its did allow third world countries like bangladesh to get onto the first rung of industrial development, christian aid said.
"international trade must not be governed by a 'race to the bottom' that pitches one set of poor people against another," mr pendleton added.
Cardinal criticises iraq war cost billions of pounds spent on conflict in iraq and in the middle east should have been used to reduce poverty, cardinal cormac murphy-o'connor has said.
The head of the catholic church in england and wales made the comments on bbc radio 4 and will re-iterate his stance in his christmas midnight mass.
The cardinal used a christmas message to denounce the war in iraq as a "terrible" waste of money.
He and the archbishop of canterbury have both spoken out about the war.
Speaking on bbc radio 4's thought for the day slot, he criticised the fact that "billions" have been spent on war, instead of being used to bring people "out of dire poverty and malnourishment and disease".
The cardinal said 2005 should be the year for campaigning to "make history poverty".
He added: "if the governments of the rich countries were as ready to devote to peace the resources they are willing to commit to war, that would be to see with new eyes and speak with a new voice and perhaps then others would listen to us with new ears."
the cardinal will touch on this theme again on friday night when he will tell the congregation of 2,000 at westminster cathedral that peace is "worth, always, striving for".
"how is it that peace has not arrived?," the cardinal will ask.
"how is it that there is war in iraq, violence in the holy land, and the horror of pain and death amongst the poor and deprived who suffer from injustice and thus do not find peace?"
"how can one wish a happy christmas for our fellow christians in iraq or in the holy land or those who suffer in africa unless you and i, in whatever way is open to us, say and do what makes for peace?"
both the cardinal and archbishop of canterbury dr rowan williams appealed for the weapons inspectors to be given more time in iraq before the war started.
Dr williams has since criticised the government over its case for war, saying the failure to find weapons of mass destruction had damaged faith in the political system.
On friday, the cardinal will ask the congregation to search for peace.
"it is possible, it is real, it is worth, always, striving for, because of the promise of our saviour," he will say.
"i also wish you peace in your homes because peace in your home is the beginning of peace in the homes of the community. "
a spokesman said downing street had no comment to make.
But prime minister tony blair has said he will put africa at the top of the agenda when britain chairs the g8 summit next year.
Tough schedule delays elliot show preview performances of the £3m musical billy elliot have been delayed to give the child actors a less arduous rehearsal schedule.
Director stephen daldry made the decision to re-schedule the previews to protect the young stars.
Three boys will rotate the demanding role of ballet dancer billy, which requires them to sing, dance and act.
The show's opening night on 12 may at the victoria palace theatre in london remains unaffected by the changes.
Preview performances will now be held on 14, 20 and 27 april.
"this is one of the most ambitious projects i have been involved with," said daldry.
"the decision has been made to push back our preview performances in order to give our company, with a cast including 45 children, a little extra time so they are as fully prepared as possible."
he added: "the young billy elliots in particular, making their professional stage debuts in the west end, will benefit from a little extra time to familiarise themselves with all aspects of the production."
the three boys playing billy are james lomas, 15, george maguire, 14, and liam mower, 12.
The other major child parts will also be rotated between young actors.
Such are the demands of the show that producers set up a stage school in newcastle to train potential stars for the show.
Child labour laws also mean the young actors can only work for a limited period each week.
Adult actors in the show include tim healy as billy's father and haydn gwnne as his dance teacher mrs wilkinson.
Sir elton john has composed the music.
Daldry directed the successful film version of billy elliot, adapted from lee hall's script.
Both were nominated for oscars, alongside julie walters, who played billy's teacher.
Newcastle to join morientes race newcastle have joined the race to sign real madrid striker fernando morientes and scupper liverpool's bid to snap up the player, according to reports.
Liverpool were reported to have bid £3.5m for the 28-year-old spanish international this week.
But the liverpool echo newspaper has said anfield boss rafa benitez will avoid a bidding war and instead turn his attentions to nicolas anelka.
Real are believed to still want £7m before selling morientes.
Monaco are also in the race for the player they had on loan last season.
Reports suggest liverpool will lift their offer to £5m - the highest they are willing to go before bowing out of any deal.
On tuesday, morientes had said: "i like liverpool and i am pleased that a club of their stature want to buy me.
I have told madrid that i want it to happen.
"madrid know my situation and they know they must do something about me.
They must sort out the situation by being sensible.
"i am in a position where i want to play, and i will have to look elsewhere to do that.
If madrid do not want me then it's in the best interests of everyone that they are realistic.
"i haven't spoken to rafa benitez but i have always appreciated his work and i would like to play for him.
But benitez could yet turn his attentions to the younger anelka should morientes be reluctant to pledge his future to liverpool.
Anelka previously played at anfield under gerard houllier before sealing his permanent switch to manchester city.
Trial begins of spain's top banker the trial of emilio botin, the chairman of spain's most powerful bank, santander central hispano, has started in madrid.
Mr botin is accused of misusing the bank's funds after he approved the payment of 160m euros ($208m; £111m) in bonus and pension payouts to two former executives.
However, the trial was suspended when mr botin's lawyer introduced a new set of documents on the day testimony was set to begin.
A three-judge panel gave prosecution lawyers until monday to study the documents, when the trial will be reconvened.
The high-profile case began after two santander shareholders filed a criminal complaint about the payments to jose maria amusategui and angel corcostegui, who stepped down in 2001.
Both executives helped mr botin orchestrate spain's biggest bank merger, between santander and banco central hispano, in 1999.
As he arrived at spain's high court earlier on wednesday, mr botin greeted the waiting media, saying: "i have full faith in justice."
santander's board of governors strongly reject the charges against their chairman, saying the payouts were legal and made with their unanimous support.
But if convicted, mr botin could face a prison term of up to six years.
Mr corcostegui, a former ceo at santander, also asked the court for new evidence to be admitted.
In spite of the allegations against him, mr botin continues to lead santander, and was instrumental in the £8.5bn takeover last november of the british bank abbey national.
Since taking over the chairmanship in 1986, he has turned santander into one of the top ten biggest banks in the world.
Why cell will get the hard sell the world is casting its gaze on the cell processor for the first time, but what is so important about it, and why is it so different?
the backers of the processor are big names in the computer industry.
Ibm is one of the largest and most respected chip-makers in the world, providing cutting edge technology to large businesses.
Sony will be using the chip inside its playstation 3 console, and its dominance of the games market means that it now has a lot of power to dictate the future of computer and gaming platforms.
The technology inside the cell is being heralded as revolutionary, from a technical standpoint.
Traditional computers - whether they are household pcs or playstation 2s - use a single processor to carry out the calculations that run the computer.
The cell technology, on the other hand, uses multiple cell processors linked together to run lots of calculations simultaneously.
This gives it processing power an order of magnitude above its competitors.
Whilst its rivals are working on similar technology, it is sony's which is the most advanced.
The speed of computer memory has been slowly increasing over the last few years, but the memory technology that accompanies the cell is a huge leap in performance.
Using a technology called xdr, created by american firm rambus, memory can run up to eight times faster than the current standard being promoted by intel.
Perhaps more important than any of the technology is the cell's role in the imminent "war on living rooms".
The big trend predicted for this year is the convergence of computers with home entertainment devices such as dvd players and hi-fis.
Companies like microsoft and sony believe that there is a lot of money to be made by putting a computer underneath the tv of every household and then offering services such as music and video downloads, as well as giving an individual access to all the media they already own in one place.
Microsoft has already made its first tactical move into this area with its windows media center software, which has been adopted by many pc makers.
Sony had a stab at something similar with the psx - a variation on the playstation - last year in japan, although this attempt was generally seen as a failure.
Both companies believe that increasing the capabilities of games consoles, to make them as powerful as pcs, will make the technology accessible enough to persuade buyers to give them pride of place on the video rack.
Sony and ibm want to make sure that the dominance of the pc market enjoyed by microsoft and intel is not allowed to extend to this market.
By creating a radically new architecture, and using that architecture in a games console that is sure to be a huge seller, they hope that the cell processor can become the dominant technology in the living room, shutting out their rivals.
Once they have established themselves under the tv, there is no doubt that they hope to use this as a base camp to extend their might into our traditional pcs and instigate a regime change on the desktop.
Cell is, in fact, specifically designed to be deployed throughout the house.
The links between the multiple processors can also be extended to reach cell processors in entirely different systems.
Sony hopes to put cells in televisions, kitchen appliances and anywhere that could use any sort of computer chip.
Each cell will be linked to the others, creating a vast home network of computing power.
Resources of the cells across the house can be pooled to provide more power, and the links can also be used to enable devices to talk to each other, so that you can programme your microwave from your tv, for example.
This digital home of the future depends on the widespread adoption of the cell processor and there are, as with all things, a number of reasons it could fail.
Because the processor is so different, it requires programmers to learn a different way of writing software, and it may be that the changeover is simply too difficult for them to master.
You can also guarantee that microsoft and intel are not going to sit around and let cell take over home computing without a fight.
Microsoft is going to be pushing its xbox 2 as hard as possible to make sure that its technology, not sony's, will be under your tree next christmas.
Intel will be furiously working on new designs that address the problems of its current chips to create a rival technology to cell, so that it doesn't lose its desktop pc dominance.
If cell succeeds in becoming the living room technology of choice, however, it could provide the jump-start to the fully digital home of the future.
The revolution might not be televised, but it could well be played with a videogame controller.
