I've quickly became a big fan of Fallen Enchatress after its release. I've always liked the Age of Wonders type of gameplay, which led me to immediately fall in love in the deep fantasy world that has managed to grasp my attention for many hours.   So when I found out that FE is getting a follow up, I couldn't wait to try it out. Once it released, I've finnaly gotten my fix... for a while. While I enjoyed a lot of things about Sorcerer King, I found the world a bit more shallow, despite the interesting premise and excellent humor. Don't get me wrong, it was a good game... however it couldn't entirely live up to Fallen Enchantress.   In a lot of ways, Rivals is identical to Sorcerer King. This is to be expected, since it's supposed to be a standalone expansion. So instead of describing everything about Sorcerer King again, I'll rather focus on things that were added.  The first major difference is the goal. While you were merely trying to stop your overlord in SK, you're now trying to become him. However this doesen't affect gameplay as much as you'd expect. He's still trying to destroy crystals and you're still trying to stop him.  Second difference comes in two new factions (with new leaders). You get dwarves and the undead, both with a somewhat unique playing style and units. The dwarves are small, bulky and really like snow, just like Santa... Well, if Santa was riding a giant spider that could shoot acid out of its mouth. The forgotten come as a clear stereotype of the undead. Their main advantage comes in being able to rise the dead, which does come in handy.   This is more than less every major difference I could think of. There are also some new quests, items, units and three new demigods, but rest of it is pretty much the same. Is that a bad thing? Well, if you enjoyed Sorcerer King, you're clearly going to enjoy Rivals too. The base principle stayed exactly the same. So much in fact, that the whole campaign is simply a copy&amp;paste. That is also my biggest gripe with Rivals. Is it really that much to ask to get a new campaign in a standalone expansion? Apparently so.  The last thing you should ask yourself is, does Rivals include enough new content to warrant the price tag? This is a tough question. The 50% discount is a nice bonus, however 15$ is still quite a lot for someone who already owns the base game. Despite that, I think we can all agree on one thing. It's a definite choice for someone new to Sorcerer King.  Final Rating: 7.7/10