If you liked the banner saga, you won't be unhappy with the sequel. I'd give the original banner saga a 95/100 and the sequel a 90. There are many holdover characters and a good number of new ones. The most important new feature introduced is new abilities which become available once a character has toped out in a stat. There are two new abilities tied to each stat, so the character progression isn't scripted. Characters gain a new skill on reaching 6th level, often a choice of advancements. Most of the new abilites fit in well with the old. Another feature to note is that a player may start a new game, playing his choice of alette or rook. Optionally, you may import an end state from the first banner saga and continue your story with your successes and failures carrying over. As in the first banner saga, the story line splits early on and the player has two separate caravans. Again, the story is linear and there is no possibility of going off course. Avoiding spoilers, there were a few story events i didn't like and a few that made me laugh. It's a decent story. I've now played the game through three times and there are still things i haven't tried. This game has a mederate replay value, in that there a quite a few characters to try. I guess that i'll have seen all the events in about five playings. The training tent feture is expanded. You can still try out tactics against assorted opponents, but there is a training feature in which you arre to use specific character abilities, some of these are challenging while others are routine to players of the first game. Combat is still chesslike, with sides alternating until one side is down to a single figure. I have never played a game which operated in this way. This has a lot of novelty value for me. I heartily recommend this game, but suggest a new player start with the original. I have recently received an update which includes something called the survival game. This consists of a series of combats using the same maps and oppont types as the main game. This version used a timer, instead of giving the player time to think. I have played this only a little. I had trouble controlling the characters and found it frustrating to know what move to make and yet not always being able to make it. I had never had any mouse problems with either the first game or the main body of the second game. Let's hope that there's an update that allows the player to reduce the sensitivity of the mouse. It's a free upgrade, so how can anyone complain. I have enjoyed both these games and plan to try the finale when it is released.