English is not my native language. I am Dutch. So please ignore any typing/grammatical mistakes in my review of this FANTASTIC game. I will break down this review in a few categories: - Graphics - Controls - Sound - Gameplay - Replayability - GRAPHICS: The game has been set in a comic-like style. The graphics are very slick: no unnecussery details. Nice colour-scemes. It totally works for this game. The graphics can be set on 'high' without stressing your system. I run this game on an i5 Pentium processor, with Nvidia Geforce 710m card - 8gb memory and it runs like clockwork (windows 8.1). - CONTROLS: The game can be played with keyboard and mouse, but also with an X-box controller. I prefer keyboard and mouse because it is easier to map out routes for your soldiers on the battlemap. - SOUND: The music is okay and adds to the theme of the game. I personally never play any music in my games because it distracts me and I think it's less realistic. In real life commandos will not have any back-ground music on when on a mission :) So I have the soundtrack disabled in the options-menu. The sound that the aliens make, is very creepy. Voice acting of human players/NPC's is very good. It all adds to a perfect atmosphere. - GAMEPLAY: - ADDICTION WARNING - : this game is not something you do for 5 minutes...before you know it, you are 3-4 or more hours planning and battling it out with the aliens.  The game is devided in two parts: your base layout and the 3d battlemap. The base layout is in 2D like an ant-farm. It works very well for your planning and building. The battlemap is completely in 3D. Here is were you battle the aliens with your soldiers. It's a bit like playing battle-chess and TURN BASED! Each member of your squad has moving points and abilities (with you can choose and develop by leveling). The turn-based settig works very well. Tip: NEVER spread out your soldiers. Keep them close to eachother (but not to close, in case of an enemy granade landing at your feet....) so they can cover all teammembers, if necessary...and it will be..... Ai of the aliens is very good and challenging, even on 'easy' difficulty. They rarely do anything stupid. This game can and will beat you the first playthrough! You are bound to make planning mistakes at your base, and/or loose soldiers in battle. You are bound to start over, or at least go back a couple of savegames because you handle things completely the wrong way. God knows, I did! But even loosing is fun.....yeah, it really is! The game is so well made that you get your *ss kicked with a smile on your face. This game is unforgiving: when a soldier is dead, he/she is REALLY dead! All equipment and leveling of that character ARE GONE! So take care of your soldiers! You really get attached to your troops and it hurts when you loose one or more, not only from the economic point of view. No shame in pulling back to base when you are out gunned or outnumbered. Keeping your troops alive is more essential than loosing a battle! Your soldiers are fully costumisable. Head, hair, voice, color of uniform and names. You can make your own private army. I made my entire family. LOL.  - REPLAYABILTY: After playing HUNDREDS of hours....you can do it all again with a different aproach or difficulty setting. And there is multiplayer! Hours of online fun.  Conclusion: THIS IS A MUST HAVE! Hundreds of hours of playing time (you don't see that to often), worth every dime! Tip: check out the internet for tips/ ingame footage and I think you will be hooked on this game to!