While Contradiction occasionally falls prey to non-sequitur 'adventure game logic,' it will be a charming, nostalgic romp for any FMV fan. And, unlike many FMV exercises, the acting manages to be well above-par, though some actors tend to ham it up. Clearly an heroic effort on a shoestring budget, the game is worth a shot even at full price.   Be aware that whileany reviews herald this game 'difficult but not frustrating,' I think be conflating 'difficult' and 'unnecessarily obtuse.' When a game like Resonance requires me to open a mathematically locked door, and I pull out a pen and paper for high-school-level algebra, that is upping the difficulty without adding frustration. When Contradiction's in-game hint system recommends that 'It's time to check out the woods again' with no narrative justification, it's being obtuse-- and therefore frustrating. The hint system shouldn't be a necessity, but here it clearly is.  I don't really mind, though, because I had extremely low expectations. It is, after all, an FMV game, and very few of those were exceptional (GK2 and Black Dahlia, for instance). Sure, at one point they were touted as the pinnacle of gaming technology, but few managed to become anything but campy (Phantasmagoria 1&amp;2), goofy (Under a Killing Moon-- still fun, though), and messy (Ripper). Ultimately the core 'fun' of an FMV game lies in the quality and interactivity of the video production. Contradiction takes smart steps in that direction despite failing as a hardcore adventure game.  I've expect the protagonists in adventure games to randomly pocket/steal items, quipping 'Maybe this will come in handy later.' If you're not familiar with that sort of suspension of disbelief, Contradiction may not be fun for you-- nor would most adventure games, honestly. The finale in Contradiction, for instance, tosses out a good chunk of previous interviews when a suspect makes a connection between two clues. Yep, even if you already figured it out yourself, you have to ask someone else to do your police work for you. If there were a way to properly examine inventory items, the game could've and should've ended before the halfway mark. It's typical suspense/police drama fashion to have a 'gotcha' moment like that, though; in that respect Contradiction is more film than game.  Still, I liked it, I had fun, and I would recommend it to the right audience.