Poof truly surprised me when I started it up just to collect the cards. I ended up playing for hours, and having a blast. Poof really is a game that I believe needs more attention. In Poof you play as a heroic little dog who's duty is to protect the cat from enemies that spawn out of doors on the side of the level. The fast paced gameplay is where I believe this game shines. It plays similar to Mario Bros the arcade game from 1983, but it also stirs things up by adding tower defense elements. Jumping on baddies heads will kill them, but there is also a variety of power ups to make things more interesting. Every round you have three challenges to complete and once you complete them you earn a unlock point which you can use to unlock a new power up or perk. You have to beat all three challenges to do this (no skipping challenges) and you have to unlock each power up/perk one after another. Some may dislike this as it takes some freedom away from the player, but personally I found that it kept me trying to complete the challenge.  Each level is the exact same layout (well you eventually can expand it a bit) which is another thing that will be mildly disappointing and repetitive to some. That being said, from each match you gain exp towards unlocking new level skins, costumes, and music, a feature that I really enjoyed. The artwork has a very cartoony cute feel to it, although I wish there was a bigger variety of enemies. I played with a Pc Xbox controller, not sure how controls feel otherwise. Poof is not a mind blowing game, but definitely a game that needs some more credit than what it gets. (Keep in mind, this review was written when I was 4.7 hours into the game. I may change my opinions later.) Pros: + Enjoyable platforming + Full controller support + Cute character design and art + Golden poo + Variety of unlockables (powerups, skins, costumes, music..etc) Cons: - Would gain from having more level layouts - Sometimes some of the challenges are too hard - Larger amount of enemies would be nice - Floaty controls take some getting use too