Grinding Gear Games have really knocked it out of the park with Path of Exile! With nearly limitless possibilities for character customization (the passive skill tree alone has ~1350 choices currently... add to that tons of skill gems and virtually unlimited gear) and constant content updates by the devs (who actually communicate with and listen to what the users want for the game first and foremost) there are so many fun, challenging, and rewarding hours of gameplay to be had by this gem of a game.  Whether going through the quests solo, partying up and taking mobs down in teams, or joining a guild, it doesn't matter. This game is NOT an MMO (but does have some nice online multiplayer). My point here is that the game is very fun no matter how you choose to play it. You can choose a standard league or a harcore league during character creation.  Path of Exile is 100% free-to-play, but never pay-to-win (unlike many others in the f2p category). PoE only offers 'ethical cosmetic micro-transactions' which change the way certain things look. You cannot ever buy a gameplay advantage in Path of Exile. Anyone who's ever been pwned in a f2p game by someboty with a bigger wallet will appreciate this.  The loot is endless. You will always be thrilled when you find that epic piece of loot that makes your character that much more of a bad-a$$. And negotiating a price in the in-game currency can be fun too... once you get to that point (don't spend your currency until at least 60+. you'll regret you did otherwise).  The competitive race leagues are so much fun. They're such a great way to jump in with a fresh hardcore character and race to get to the highest level in the shortest period of time without dying. Do you have what it takes to make it to the end or will you RIP?  Path of Exile is by far the best aRPG game I have ever played (and I'm no newb to the genre) and one of the best games I've ever played in my life. You owe it to yourself to give it a try. It's free. It always will be.