Very enjoyable. It does have it's downsides though.   Pros: -Runs very well(for me at least, not that my system is too old). Rarely had any issues with bugs or graphical issues. Only real bug that comes to mind is for some reson when I start flying (either in skyland or at the end) it would really mess up my keybindings with the only way to fix it is to quit and resume from the main menu. It would cause my LMB to use 2 every time I got a skull for it. It was quite fun to watch myself spamming fire everywhere. But at the last boss when having the right spell was important it became a problem. I had to beat him while avoiding using my wings even once.   - Looks nice. It overall looks like it could be real. But it does have a bit of cartoonish in it. Overall very well done and polished.   - Gameplay is very smooth. Aside from the flight bug I had. Animations for everything feels right.  - Characters are mostly interesting. Ayumi can get annoying. But this is mainly the script and not the character herself. As a few people have stated in relation to the voice acting. The script could use some improvements. I really think it wouldn't be so bad if we didn't have everything explained by her every time something new game along. Although outside of Ayumi there isn't much involvementwith other characters.    Cons: - It feels like everything is handed to you. If there is some secret path to progress in the game it will show you the way. You're even given a compass to show hidden tresure. As long as you peek at it every once in a while you will have no trouble finding everything. Assuming I didn't forget to look at it a few times. Getting real annoying listoning to the main character explain everything to me. I would like to figure it out myself sometimes.   - Combo's are limited. Usually in these types of games you find you buy tons of attack combo's. In this game it's mostly about spells. And they're hardly challanging to use. I don't fully call this a bad thing. Since in most of these types of games with a bunch of attack combo's you find one you like and use it for 95% of the game. I prefer this game's approach. But there's nothing really crafty about using the spells. Enemies are not really weak or strong to the elements you use. You just used them based on the effects/items you want. Closest it gets is a boss that has a shield that can only be broken by the right element.   - Enemy(bosses make this the most annoying) attacks can easily rotate if you dash around them. You can be attacking a boss. Dash behind him as he attacks, and his next swing will instantly turn to you. The boss should have to turn or have an attack in that direction. Closest game I know of to seek improvement examples from would be Vindictus. Easily one of my favorite hack and slash games. Which I would still play if my account didn't get hacked and I lost everything with Nexon unwilling to fix it.   - I never felt I needed/wanted to use my time powers in fights unless it was required. Biggest problem to me is that you can push the enemies around so your close's attacks becomes messed up.    Overall 8.5/10  I was never bored playing this game even though it's system is very simple and it felt like my hand was held through most of it. If they can improve the AI of enemies, make combo's more interesting and make exploring rewarding this game would easily be a 9.5 or 10 for me.