Magic fans beware... Wizards is afraid to make a decent digital game.    At its core Magic the Gathering is a social game. A game to enjoy with your friends (or frenemies) laughing, talking smack, and dropping game winning bombs. Wizards of the Coast seems to have forgotten this. IF YOU CHOOSE TO PLAY WITH FRIENDS YOU CANT EARN GOLD, and gold is important. Gold is so important that they have implemented a DAILY CAP, understandable considering gold unlocks everything in game. But get ready for a long and boring 1v1 grind against the computer or random oponents, whom you can't even speak to. If you choose to Play for Free, it will take you roughly 4 hours a day for upwards of a month, by yourself, to unlock the cards. With a daily cap I'm not sure why you can't earn gold in 2HG mode or even Free4all with buddies. YOU CANT EVEN LOBBY UP WITH FRIENDS.   Magic Origins wants to compete with Hearthstone, show it who rules the roost of TCGs. Too bad it can't without an overhaul of the system. If you play magic on Steam, you can't play your account on IOS, PS, or XBOX. Meaning you will have to START ALL OVER ON EACH PLATFORM. Another month or two of grind, or cold hard cash. This could be a greed driven decision by wizards, or ineptitude, either way it's bad. Plus Magic is BUGGY, broken cards, broken mechanics, broken leaderboards, and connectivity issues.    Magic for some reason seems to hate letting you build decks with any kind of consistancy, limiting the number of rares you can own to 2-3 and ultra rares to 1. With a total of 256 cards you would assume to see the same cards u see dropping for the paper release. This is not the case. You're stuck with a ton of bad filler cards from past years and then rounded out by a few of the actual origins cards. I hope this isn't the case for upcoming expansions.   In my opinion Wizards is just plain afraid to make a decent digital magic game. Afraid that if they do it will hinder the sales of its real life counterpart. To that I say, warning Wizards. Magic the Gathering is the OG of TCGs, but unless the OG adapts to the present, the young bucks like Hearthstone will bury it. Have some confidence in the franchise and produce a digital game you can be proud of.    Believe it or not I'm a huge fan of MTG, and can only hope that Wizards will update this game. Solving the issues addressed here and adding content like Drafts, Sealed pools, Archenemy, Planes Chase, and Commander/EDH. Most importantly the ability to make a lobby and play with friends. WITHOUT FRIENDS TO PLAY WITH, MAGIC CARDS ARE JUST PRETTY PICTURES.