It is sad how much of a backlash Watchdogs received after it was advertised as being 'Amazing Next Gen Expericence' like countless titles are. I can't defend Watchdogs from its' critisizims when it has a publisher known as 'Ubisoft'.   Now that I have got that out of the way I am pleased to say; Watchdogs is a great game. So long as you don't presume the graphics will be crysis 4 and the gameplay 'Imersive, realistic depiction of a future poisened with decieving technology'. There is alot of fun to be had with this title, the world is jam packed with things to do, 70% are incredibly fun like Gang hideouts and Criminal convoys along with robust shooting and an amazing cover system the gameplay value I believe to be $30 AUS (so get the game on sale).  Let's talk about the selling point; Hacking. Even those who completely despise the game will agree that no game can compare to watchdogs when it comes to an intuative and fun to use hacking system. The hacking system adds another layer to an already strong gameplay experience.   Yes, the story is ♥♥♥♥. This is because of the awful characters who, (while voice acted very well) all suffer from being cartoon characters that are hard to take seriously. I honestly don't really mind the supporting cast and I thought they did their job but it's the main character Ayden Pierce who makes me want to recommend the Ubisoft writing team a long holiday and Physiatric help when it comes to writing a lead character. Ayden is honestly the most annoying aspect of the game, he acts like he is actually helping people though he is ignorant to all the killing he is doing (or technically, the player is doing). In short he is kind of like one of those A holes who does anything to impress someone they have the hots for, (If you don't know the kind of people im talking about just go to the aftermath of a local band).  So would I recommend Watch_Dogs?   Yes, I delivers a fun sandbox experience with unique hacking mechanics (not gimmics) as well as a large supply of content making it a great pick for a steam sale.