Yeah, i'm really going to suffer through a bunch of idiotic tutorial dialogue one speech bubble at a time with no option to skip to the next line when i'm done reading. It's really good and well-thought-out that all the 'important' conversations give me two options: 1) stare at text bubble long after im finished reading it or 2) skip entire conversation by pressing escape. I'm using sarcasm btw. I'm being sarcastic. I am utilizing a sarcastic tone to convey the opposite meaning of the literal definition of my words. In truth, the instant the last steam trading card drops i'm going to be quitting and immediately deleting local content. If the dialogue was at-all interesting maybe it'd be worth sitting still through the horribly-paced cutscenes, but every conversation is nick jr. Level garbage, dripping with that awful, condescending slime of idiotic childrens' programming for idiotic children. It's patronizing, unimaginatively hokey, constantly condescending and utterly unbearable. It's also really insanely good that the unimportant 'flavor' conversations can be skipped one bubble at a time, thus proving that the designers were capable of implementing this feature, but for whatever reason they then decided all the extremely important cutscene dialogue needed to be read at a speed of approximately one speech bubble every thirty seconds. Also the overworld control is pretty clunky (with a strange 'momentum pause' when switching directions 90 degrees at a time) - probably feels a lot better on a controller, but wasd for life. Thankfully i'm probably not going to end up being horribly horribly frustrated by it because i don't plan on actually playing this game. The battles are moderately cool i guess if you're into final fantasy and/or qte-styled fights (press key to select thing, press key when slider is in the sweet spot to do thing) and maybe the costume mechanics are good, maybe they're terrible, i'm unfortunately never going to find out because every two minutes i'm interrupted by a cutscene that i end up completely skipping once my patience runs out, so i end up further and further separated from the most 'important' plot elements or story goals or whatever these cutscenes are intended to convey. In the interests of pointing out the positives: the graphics are very nice and colorful, and since there's no voice-acting there's no terrible voice-acting to either disable or bîtch about the inability to disable. Recommended for slow readers, fans of terrible cinematic pacing, and lobotomy patients.