The reboot of the Devil May Cry franchise has brought about many changes for the series, particularly for series’ protagonist, Dante. While fans of the original series may be upset at the change to their beloved character, it’s certainly for the better; and this new game by Ninja Theory proves it.  DMC serves as the perfect point for newcomers to jump into the series. It shows the origins of an arrogant, cynical Dante, and it chronicles his journey from cynicism to selflessness. Throughout, the game weaves a clear, narrative arc for the new Dante, making him a compelling character to watch.image  The story follows Dante as he’s introduced into the corrupt world he willfully chose to ignore. Mungus, demon leader of the media-controlled world, sets out to destroy Dante, a surviving member of the Sparda family, and the only man who can stop the tyrannical rule of Mungus. The world of DMC heavily satirizes our own. It portrays the conservative Raptor News (think FOX news) as the force that keeps general society in check.  DMC’s main draw has been, and always will be it’s gameplay. DMC shines in that it sets out to make players feel like the biggest badass to ever grace the Earth, and it accomplishes that goal with style. In combat, players are able to quickly switch between several different weapons effortlessly, in order to maintain combos. After each skirmish or combo, players are ranked in their performance and rewarded accordingly. Dante can unlock new abilities for each one of his many weapons with souls earned throughout the game.  The spectacle isn’t limited to gameplay luckily, because DMC’s level design is spectacularly surreal. Every single level and environment in DMC is fresh, and stylistically different from any other level in a game. Each areas unique look reminds players that they are in the Limbo-fied version of the real world. Some of the environments include: a chalk-drawn skyscraper, a dance club where the beats and tunes change the environment, and many more.  The biggest flaw with DMC is it’s short life span. While twenty chapters may sound daunting at first, the fantastic combat and set pieces makes time fly by quickly. Luckily, for those interested, beating the game unlocks new difficulties, as well as other aesthetic awards. Rather than making the enemies stronger or have more health, the unlocked difficulties drastically alter gameplay from A.I. changes, to the mechanics of the game themselves. They are meant for the dedicated and sadistic.  DMC is a welcome reboot that breathes new life into the franchise. It’s accessibility make it a great starting point for any who might be interested, while never compromising it’s style or spectacle.