I'm going to start off by saying that i rate the witcher 3 as one of the best games ever made, and i've been playing pc games for over 25 years so i don't make that statement lightly. I only have one gripe with the game so i'm going to get it out of the way first, and that's that there’s a major disparity in how useful the different skills are. As an example let's say you have a choice of three combat skills which are +5% fast attack damage, +5% strong attack damage or +2% crossbow critical chance. The fast and strong attack options are going to be good depending on how you play, and putting points into one or the other will further sculpt your style of play down that path, so this feels organic and works well. However because it’s a core part of witcher lore that witchers fight with swords, the crossbow does exactly f*ck all damage and is only used situationally for either bringing flying monsters back to ground, or for the limited situations where you need to fight underwater. A crossbow attack takes about three times as long as a fast attack, and even a critical hit only does about 1/4 as much damage, so it's like going 'oh dear what a tough decision i have, do i want the skill that turns geralt into a 7 foot tall demi-god who eats rocks and sh*ts lightning bolts, or the one that allows him to p*ss his pants in the line for the bookstore?' right. Moving on to the plethora of good things i have to say about the game; the writing is absolutely top notch. I would put it slightly behind planescape: torment but on par with baldur's gate 2, which basically means top 5 of all time. Everything from the dialogue between the main characters to the peasants grumbling about their peasanty bullsh*t feels natural and believable, and there's excellent voice acting to back it up. Some of the conversations between geralt and the emperor emhyr var emreis (voiced by charles danse who played tywin lannister in game of thrones) were so good they made me jump up and down in my chair. Witcher 3 is a huge game in terms of content and yet the quests are varied and interesting. Rather than creating a 100 hour rpg with 80 hours worth of fetch quests cdpr have created a game where you'll genuinely feel like you’re part of the story and will consider the possible consequences before you act. Graphically the game is stunning, and although i'm not a huge one for graphics i'm surprised by how much the painstakingly constructed animations (particularly the facial animations) contribute to the how immersive the game is. The combat mechanics are great and from what i'm told they scale well with difficulty (i haven't played on the lower difficulties so i’m relying on second hand info). It looks like they've used motion capture for a lot of the combat animations and it shows. If they haven’t then /mindblown. All of these things combine to make the witcher 3 an extremely immersive and engaging rpg and a triumph of modern game design. I haven't been this impressed by a game since planescape: torment and baldur’s gate 2. Do yourself a favour and play it.