So let`s start: Gothic 2 is second part of RPG saga Gothic and balh blah blah  (Wikipedia.org  says that ). But I want to start from my point of weave and tell what I think about it: Gothic 2 was one of the first (first was Gothic 1) RPG`s I got my hands on my in my childhood, back in 2002 it was something unbelivible and awesome in terms of lore, combat, magic... and at the same time it wasnt ovrloaded like modern RPG`s with stuff you dont need.  Good side: Gothic 2 was briliant game and 'Piranhas' managed to fix those problems they had in gothic 1 (exept those that were not possible to fix thx to engine limitations as I know) game is friendly to those who are new to the world of Gothic and kingdom of Myrthana and those who know it from privious game. Every NPC that was in first part almost ask you do you styll remember him or not so you can learn something about him. Gameplay: game play is devided in chapters that make game slightly harder to beat if you just fast run from point A to point B, after release of Night of Raven (and latter the Gold edition that we have here) game became biger and harder to finish at fast run. another good side is Open world that has its own life: from fealds with insects , to forests with wolves and ancient secrets in them and to swamps filled with flys and other animals that could kill you just because you went there. Oh... and almost forgot: Gothic 2 have dragons and they are more brutal then in Sky***.  Bad side of gold: First bad side is some texture glitches aspecialy in darkness, second patch used in Gold forces you to search for patch that downgrades game version so you could instal some mods on it. And ofc age of graphys could scare new people who want to try this game. and maybe some problems with searching quest locations. and there were problems with Win 7 as I remember but I belive drivers were fixed on video cards so that problem was solved  all in all: Gothic 2 Gold is an RPG that every fan of genrie should try no matter of problems that may accure as they should brake your PC in half as it gives you plenty of time to waist and you will want to try other paths of game play to see what could have be done differently. I hope I helped and make you reader interested in this game and you will spend your time with joy.