So many things was made wrong. I even dont know how to start this review. This all is refered to MyCareer. My player is an outside scorer, PG, 1.71m, has maxed stats and got already all necessary perks.  Ok, and now tell me, why the shooting skill depends to a person's hight? Why a person who has 1.74m can not became so good in shooting as a person with 1.71m? I'm 1.87m in RL, made my first player with this hight and noticed then i can not reach a higher skill than 89. WHY? Thats a pure discrimination! AND WHY the game does not tell me that  BEFORE  I create a char and not even then when I reach the skill limit after weeks of playing?!?   Shooting: Shooting in NBA2k16 is completly scripted and depends to the game's mood. Example: The game just started, after fews passes I'm standing free at the 3P-line, get the ball, the shot is A+ and its a miss. WHY? There are 2 option how to throw: player timing or % from the stats. I have player timing selected. Why I miss so often A+ shots? WHY? That isnt funny!! Futhermore a shot has a higher chance of success after a doublemove than without? WHY? In NBA2k13 I had a 80%+ throwing rating- in 2k16 42%. Really?  Coach orders/tuts: The coach orders are a joke. Firstly, 70% of all orders aren't shown. Suddenly I get an F because I didnt done what the coach wanted. And thats several times per game! WHY the hell that is not fixed after so long time?? Coach orders the second. There isnt completly nowhere an explanation of this orders. There isnt any explanation at all! 'Bring the ball into the post and let the big men do their job'. Post? Where is the ♥♥♥♥ing 'post'!? In Germany 'post' means 'post office'. Shall I screenshot the ball and send you a post card?!? Where is the 'low post'? Where is the 'zone'? Etc. pp. Not every ♥♥♥♥ing man on this world grows up with basketball. I i.e. grew up with soccer. I dont know the rules of BB, the field positions, the strategys, etc. pp. I just want to play some BB on computer. Where is a ♥♥♥♥ing tutorial which explans me everything I shout know about this game  BEFORE  I start playing??  Cutscenes: There are so many cutscenes you can not cancel immediately. Every timeout I penetrate my controller in the hope the cutscene cancels soon, and have to wait anyway til Gatorade's surreptitious advertising was shown. REALLY? WHY!?  Defense-AI: My team has the ball, I'm standing outside in the corner. I decide to run to the other corner. When I start running the oppenent who is guarding me starts running too - at the same time in front of me! I running down, he running down. I running up, he too - without looking back! He behaves like a mirror - like i would steer both. That dont even happens only in such case, it happen always and for ever! WHY?  Passing: Def Rebound -&gt; fastbreak. A player of my team is running to the offense, I see a free straight line to him, press the pass button and what happen? Right, he is suddenly turning to the basket, runs behind an opponent and my player passes to the position he got  AFTER  I pressed the button -&gt; turnover. WTF!? That happens so often.  SO OFTEN!!  WHY!? And the biggest joke of this game is the other way round happens the same. I running a fastbreak in the direction to the outer line, get a pass and my player... right... runs to the basket  out of my control!  I can not stop him to do this! REALY? WHY!?  I dont want to do a ♥♥♥♥ing dunk! I want to do a 3 point fastbreak!  Got it?  GOT IT!?   This example represents the whole game: you have to have fun in the way of the developers. You even can not do your thing and enjoy the game like you want. You have to play this game like they want you to play, but in addition they dont tell you how. And that means a high frustration. They want you to play in manner of their imagin and there is not a single inch place for  you !