Roll and move now on a PC. Talisman: Digital edition is a PC implementation of tabletop board game Talisman. In it you will take a role of one of many adventures and embark on an adventure. Roll dice to move, pick a direction and deal with the consequences. Many characters have special powers that you can utilize in one way or another to make achieving your goals a bit quicker. Talisman came out a long time and as many old games it has it’s share of issues that modern board games have learned to deal with. However like old games it also has a big fan base.  Talisman: Digital edition is for better or worse a faithful representation of the board game. But as digital board games go it is quite well done. You are able to save your progress without occupying a whole table. You can play with your friends that are spread across the globe. And you can play by yourself if you don’t have any friends to play it. If you buy season pass that gives you access to all the dlc, of which Talisman has many, it will save you quite a bit of shelf space as well.  Most of the issues with Talisman: Digital edition come inherited from the board game. That means it can take forever to finish a game and is quite unbalanced and a lot depends on a roll of a die. Added to that are a few AI issues where computer controlled players can get stuck in a loop of selling and buying swords or make actions that are not quite optimal.   Dad rating: Fine    You can save only on your turn. But you can pause the game during computer opponent turn.   Some of the art on some cards can be a bit scary but it’s always static images that you could see in a book or a board game.  Talisman is not my favorite board game. But I do like board games and it’s good to see some of them cross over to PC world. With digital implementation of board games they usually fall short because playing with physical components is so much better. In Talisman: Digital edition a lot of the hassle of playing with real board game is removed and that’s why I recommend it.