Close Your Eyes is an indie horror game that's free. There are POSSIBLE SPOILERS in this review, but I will hide them.  UPDATED 3/28/16 [I finished the game]  PROS -Price: This game is FREE -Voice Acting: While it's a bit sparse, the voice acting that is present is very well done.  -Tone/Mood: The atmosphere of the game is extremely dark, and lends itself well to the overall story that is being presented to us. Dialogue also gives off an eerie feeling. -Story: I don't think I've ever come across a game like CYE before. It has a unique premise that lends itself to the horror genre. -Style: Jesus the art in this game gave me the creeps. And that's a very good thing! The game's art sucks you into the story and the overall atmosphere of the game. My favorite thing about this game so far is the sparse lighting. Having everything very dimly lit sets the tone and sucks you into the story even more. -Protagonist: Even though our protagonist (the death row inmate) rarely speaks, I really like him. The game is so well done that you can actually feel yourself sympathizing with a murderer. (Also, he's a cute little bouncy thing. Who could resist?) -Antagonist: GOD YES. The Host and Simon are wondefully done characters who served their purposes well. Simon, especially -- any scene involving him gave me chills. -Other Characters: The Girl and The Girl in Yellow were wonderful, unforgettable characters who enhanced the story. -Ambient Sounds: Beautiful, eerie, and haunting soundtrack that made me shiver at several points when playing.   CONS -Soundtrack: I only had 1 problem with the soundtrack but for me, it was relatively major. There are a few scenes that involve a character called The Girl that are supposed to be beautiful and emotional but had the cheesiest music EVER behind them. I would have enjoyed the scene had there not been cheesy music in the background. I love the rest of the music so far, being ambient and without vocals. But the music with vocals -- especially being such a cheesy song -- really took me out of the game.   Overall, I would give Close Your Eyes a 94/100. It is most definitely worth a try!