Seeing as how volition is working on a new game, i think it's time for me to finally take a second look at saints row: the third . I've reviewed part 4 and gat out of hell , and i didn't have much of anything pleasant to say about them. In fact, i reviewed the third around the time of its original release, and even then i wasn't altogether ecstatic about it. Link to review - http://www.the-nextlevel.com/review/360/saints-row-the-third/ so, after a fairly thorough replay, i've ascertained where the third succeeds and fails. When agents of mayhem eventually releases, i'm hopeful that volition will have developed it with their strengths in mind, and not their weaknesses. Saints row: the third is at its best early on. In the beginning of the game, you're in unfamiliar territory, you start out with practically nothing, and everyone has far superior firepower and numbers to overwhelm you with. Exploring the city, discovering rewards, and making small but noticeable upgrades to your firepower and abilities; these are the aspects that are satisfying. However, as the game progresses, volition deems it necessary to ratchet up the scale, make the explosions bigger, the body-counts higher, and the boss (you) the most awesome force of nature. Eventually you're so powerful that nothing harms you, you have unlimited high-tech ordnance that makes everything explode, and the game becomes dramatically less fulfilling as a result. After a certain point, it's all a matter of going through the motions, just so the story can conclude. But let's rewind and talk about the lowest point of sr3, the intro mission. Saints row, and by extension, open-world games are at their best when there's as little scripting as possible. Sr3's intro mission is just wave after wave of bad guys followed by a rail-shooter, and it's an absolute snore. The mission directly afterwards involves falling out of not one but two planes in order to rescue shaundi. For whatever reason, shaundi has to be saved a lot, but that isn't the point. Falling out of planes should be exciting, but instead it becomes an excuse for another rail-shooter section, and a moment where the boss dodges falling vehicles and storage containers. It's supposed to be exciting, but it isn't, because it's so scripted that it becomes uninteresting. The first several hours of open-world exploration are great. Players are bound to stumple upon the multitude of 'gang operations', which in turn cause numerous gang-members to attack. This part of the game is exciting, because the player has agency. They decide where to go, how to get there, and the situation is different depending on a) the gangs, b) the player's arsenal, c) the location, and d) randomness. As the game progresses, the player takes over steelport, and all those actual exciting moments dry up. The introduction of the stag army raises the stakes, but in terms of game-design, all it results in is larger explosions and louder noises. One of the strengths of the early game are the specialists. These unique gang-members attack in ways that are unlike the 'guys with guns' that are standard for the genre. Stag doesn't really have anyone that fits the bill, so it's just police 2.0. Also, by the time the stag rolls in, the other gangs are all but wiped out, so there are less opportunities for exciting conflicts. To add to this, you're not the lone stranger you were in the beginning, and your gang is on practically every street corner. It's a fine recipe for chaos, but doesn't really make for inspired game-design. Simply put, the third needed more variables. If things can go wrong, maybe they should. Situations should be allowed to play out in any number of ways, and players should be forced to contend with a multitude of possibilities. A simple mission could involve robbing a bank, but other rivals are gunning for that same bank. The player could steal an armored truck, but if they crash it into a river, then they have to steal a boat to fish out the cash. Anything is an improvement over standing around with a machinegun, and mowing down thirty or so helicopters. With all this said, do i still recommend saints row: the third? yes. It holds up better than its sequel, and the gentlemen of steelport mod adds all sorts of fun cheats and extras. At this point, i'm more curious about how agents of mayhem is going to turn out. It has the potential to be a far more creative game than the sr series. It would just be a shame if the open-world design and vision was truncuated or ignored. What could be dynamic and interesting, could also be repetitive and bland. It's all in the execution.