+ Interesting concept + Beautiful graphics  + Can be played in idyllic black-and-white - or normal color rich setting + Gives a few good shivers + The arsenal of 17th centuary  + Fair price  - Story is predictable and dry - Very simple action, which gets repeative too quick - Horror grows weary   Betrayer develeopment team 'Blackpowder Games' is formed from veteran devs of Monolith Studios which is behind legendary games No One Leaves Forever and F.E.A.R.   The game settles itself 1600s Virginian coast at the time of colonization, which is not too often seen in fps titles. The main character is nameless, presumably english captain and only survivor of sunken ship. The game doesn't spend too much time with more enlighten intro, but lets player jump into boots of this lonely seaman straight away.  At the very beggining it comes clear that something has gone terribly wrong with both the english and the spanish settlements on the neighbourhood. Only friendly person with whom protogonist begins to cope is mysterious lady dressed in red.   Betrayer merits highly on visual level - graphical desing is astonashing. I really loved how wind waved the trees and I could see every sprig shivering in gallantic spruces. The immersion is fulfilled because there is no background music and you can literally hear the wind blowing. I also loved how the color scheme could be set from full color -setting to default which shows only red colors and leaves everything else black and white.  Gameplay in Betrayer works like in any typical fps. While the weapon arsenal is unusual and exotic I found fighting too simple. The enemy AI is not worst possible, but majority of melee enemies just rush at you from long distance which makes it easy to take them down with bow or gun depending on hostiles' strenght. While the gunpowder doesn't grow in trees I had no difficulties to survive.  The game's biggest advandage lies in its horror feature and I admit having rather unconfortable moments when wandering in wilderness in night time/mode. The enemies lurking in there are more gruesome and surely got me scared a couple of times. However like in other action horror hybrids it is easy to get used to these dangers. Any boogieman or -woman can be killed and thus usually every new type of enemy may get one scared only a couple of times before killing them becomes a routine.  If I could give this rating somewhere between good and bad I did. Betrayer has some features like already mentioned colour settings which I would gladly see in other games too. On the other hand either fighting nor freightning features last long enough which makes gameplay to flatten much too quick and even the story sorted out to be medicore after promising start.  Eventually it is a price tag which lift's my thumb up - even higher if it's on sale.