This is a great action game with a fun sandbox open world. The combat isn't super challenging, but it's hard enough and with enough variations of moves and weapons to keep things fresh from start to end. Of course the nemesis system is the highlight and it really is good, it's not just a gimmick. Now, it's probably not quite as detailed and robust as some of the glowing reviews might have you believe - you will start noticing certain patterns and artificiality to it - but nonetheless it is extremely impressive. Between the variation of orcs, their gear, their strenghts and weaknesses, and the AI doing a good job of making them respond naturally to you - it becomes very easy to imagine that these are real characters with their own behaviours and culture and society.  Another highlight of the game is the sandbox open world. While the maps themselves (there are actually two large areas, between which you can switch after you complete enough of the main campaign) aren't quite as huge as something like Far Cry 3 - they are detailed with tons of interesting things to do around almost every corner. But they also don't overwhelm you with busy work, unlike say Dragon Age Inquisition. There's plenty to do and find, but it all seems to be much better tied to the world and it always seems manageable and important just enough that you want to get it all, but you don't feel like you have to, you don't feel like you would gimp your character if you don't pick up every single 'collectible'.  The stealth gameplay is simple, but it's also kind of satisfying. It's the kinda thing where I wouldn't mind having a bit more detail and options when it comes to stealth, but I'm also okay with what there is of it.  I was also pleasantly surprised at the polish of the game, not just in terms of lack of bugs, but also in a sense that there's not much to complain about. It's not one of those games where I love most of it, but there are one or two things that just drive me bonkers. There are no serious problems with Shadow of Mordor as far as I'm concerned, just minor issues.  If you enjoy open world action games and can dig the setting you'll have a lot of fun with this one.