Remember age of mythology? yeah, it's been that long since there's been an rts game of such quality. Divinity: dragon commander reaches awfully close to these borders of my personal most favourite rts game. Combine this with a huge risk-like grand strategy mode and there, it hit the spot. I am not (read: try not to be) overly biased due to the fact that this game allows you to turn into a dragon, aiding your troops by supporting, attacking and even commanding unit production, direction and spawning at the very same time. Honestly, i do like the complicated rts games nowadays. Think of civ v and so on. However, such games attempt to cram complex mechanics, charts and resources all into one complicated game mode. This can work out really well, but the power in dragon commander's rts mode lies not in its complexity. More like its simplicity. In total, there are but 13 units that can be created, balancing each other out quite reasonably, and each having the possibility of being upgraded thrice. One main resource, a population cap, building sites and some natural obstacles. Although this may sound quite basic (which it is), the actual gameplay proves to be very interesting and many different strategies apply. Plus, the dragon is a massive gamechanger. Dragon mode can either save your life or ruin it because of improper microing while being one. 3 dragons with their own abilities fight for the additional variety. Not only does the simply epic dragon mode, a usp that's been praised to the heavens, contribute to the most valuable aspects of the game; the strategy mode (which is basically risk combined with cards and special abilities) and especially the single player campaign also make this game as epic as it is. In single player, not only do you have to fight your enemies in strategy mode as well as rts mode, but the entire storyline around dragon commander demands that you will take on the right to make important political, moral and economical decisions that have direct impact on gameplay factors such as research, currency, abilities, luck, popularity etc. There are always races disagreeing with you. After all, being the emperor of a world housing undead, elves, imps, dwarves and lizards is bound to cause conflicts that will always have adverse and beneficial effects at the same time. Now it is up to you to keep the balance right. Give it a try, it's not as easy as you may think. In conclusion, i'd say that dragon commander is a surprisingly effective game regarding gameplay and mechanics, sadly quite underpopulated on multiplayer ends. Narrative-wise, the game is very immersive and allows for quite the suspension of disbelief. The characters in singleplayer (like our ultimate posh friend general edmund) as well as the models and environment in the entire game look astonishing for its genre. Not that much lag issues in multiplayer, and if there are people online it's quite fun to challenge each other. With a blend of rts and tbs/grand strategy, and the addition of your personal touch of dragon, invoking challenging and innovative strategy gameplay, i'd most definitely say it is worth acquiring this game. It is expensive, i give you that, but it's most certainly not a disappointment. In fact, it's quite the gem.