I am recommending this solely because it's free, and might be a more 'enjoyable' experience for others.  As for my experience, the 'game' did nothing for me. Half the story relies on shock factor. I was not shocked nor emotionally moved in any way by this. Maybe I'm desensitized, or maybe it was too simple to warrant a reaction out of me. As for the other half of the game, it tries to paint a picture (literally) of a person in mental decline. It deals with obsession, hallucination, depression and a few other things. In theory it is a cool idea. But the 'game' took me 10 minutes to complete, and that is with reading and taking in every little bit of information I could. 10 minutes is not enough time to even brush the surface of one these mental illnesses, let alone all of them present. The most prominent one is obsession, in fact almost all of the game revolves around it. Yet all that the obsession lead to was the setup of the 'game', it had nothing to do with even the ending of the 'game'. It really makes the whole experience seem like wasted potential. To top it off, the 'ending' of the game facades as a continued look into these mental illnesses, but it's all a tease and simply ends in a slap to the face.  I also ran into some technical issues which aren't really that big of a deal for a 10 minute 'game', but they should be made known regardless. Firstly, the game stutters. Bad. I'm not talking about low FPS, I'm talking about the type of stutter you would see in a game such as Oblivion. I'm used to playing on a 144hz 120+FPS monitor and setup, so when something looks sluggish or stutters, it's abundantly noticeable and distracting to me. Some people may not even notice it, but if you're prone to being annoyed by the kind of thing, be aware that as of writing this it is present in the game. Secondly, and the worst offense in my opinion (albeit one that might happen to a very small group of people) is that the game has no option in the menu to set mouse sensitivity, and the default one is absurdly high. Even on the lowest dpi setting my mouse supports (400) moving the mouse just 1 inch resulted in performing a 360. Needless to say it got annoying quickly.  I'm sure some people will find it to be an interesting experience (and many people do), but I didn't enjoy this 'game' very much at all.