Wildstar is one of my favorite mmos I have ever played, but it is not without its faults.    Pros: Combat system, Raids, Dungeons, Housing, Cash Shop that isnt p2w, lore, visuals.     Combat : After playing wildstar, I can not go back to a tab targeting mmo again. It is so much fun just to attack things.   Dungeons and Raids : Raids are one of the most fun I have had in any MMO and the dungeons are really cool too.   Housing : Housing was something I thought that I would never touch but it is sooooo customizable that I have lost countless of hours in housing and there are soooo many housing options it is insane.   Cash Shop:  The cash shop has some cool and intersting costumes, mounts and things such as RNG tokens, flasks (for leveling etc) but is does not have any p2w items. The prices MIGHT be a little high but it is a super fair cash shop.    Lore :This is one of the few mmos (besides ffxiv) where I actually cared about the lore. I find it super intersting and the way the datacubes are scattered throughout the world, you feel like you are a detective solving a mystery.    Visuals : Dat particle effects though!   Cons: Crafting system, Optimization, PvP needs some love, Needs more content, Class Problems.    Crafting system : On the surface is looks cool and different than other crafting in other mmos, but it leaves much to be desired.    Optimatzation : The number one reason I think that WildStar was not an instant success. In the beginning this game had very poor optimzation that some people couldnt even run the game. It is now much more optimzed, but people with AMD cards, for example, still run into problems just trying to run this game .   Pvp : Oh god pvp. People either love it, or really hate it but no one can deny that it needs some work. Between the gear, runes, and that fact that class abilities are not divided between pvp and pve, can lead to some nasty class inbalance issuses.   Content : WildStar needs to now focus on more content. By content I do not mean season events and adventrues and expeditions. I mean dungeons and raids. This thing that make this game shine. A new raid is in the works and it is up on PTR now and so far, it is pretty fun, but it has been a looonnngg time coming.    Class problems :  #KillSurgical   Wildstar is an amazing mmo that I urge  EVERYONE  who is a fan of the genre to try out.