I got this game in a Bundle thinking it would be a really good game to play with my friends, However the gameplay wasn't enough to keep my full attention. it wasn't very exciting to travel less than 20 feet only to be killed by 3 Utahraptors that was the first time i actually played it. right then and there I knew something was wrong with the mechanics of this game. a few things I really didn't like about this game. #1 there is no hip fire when trying to get away from anything you can only aim and fire you cannot move away or even try to escape anything attacking you while trying to fire at it. #2 when you have traveled across the map and you die the map goes blank again like you were never there, unless you can get back to where you died before dying again and again. #3 this is not a single player game it is but it's meant to be played in groups of people the only problem with this is when you play a single player game you travel and so do others and when you join a Multiplayer map people are all over the place you can't ever find them not even your friends. it's a mission just to find anyone on a server. #4 the graphics on this game don't impress me not many settings not many options. #5 and A.I themselves get stuck if one is chasing you and you go up a hill it will get stuck on a rock and stay there allowing you to kill it. it won't go around it wont try to get unstuck it will just stay in that place and keep running. #6 Carry weight you can only carry so much weight and when you have the .700 Double Barrel Rifle it takes up a lot of weight 25% i believe, even though they claim it's the most effective rifle to take down the T-rex finding ammo for this rifle is almost impossible trying to stay alive while finding it is also impossible. Ammo in general is easy to find keeping it is another thing how many shots does it take to kill a T-Rex? everything you shoot at you run out of ammo they charge you kill you with one hit and you start the game over again and again and this gets a little repeitive. I didn't read any of the reviews on this game because I wanted to play it for myself and do my own review. this game has a lot of potential but it lacks a lot of things that will make it a great Multiplayer game. #7 the glitches are very annoying the crashes are as well, you can't save your progress to keep your map open or to find your way back to the pile of poop to get your Map fragments that the T-Rex pooped out When it ate you. I was hoping for a lot of great things in this game but I only found that the more I played it the more I hated it. #8 the weapons or lack of them. 11 different kinds of weapons but no Machine guns no throwing weapons no explosives no shoulder fired weapons So the very basic weapons to survive the Dinosaur world, if your alone and you fire at one most likely it will kill you. maybe the devs who made this game had godmode and unlimited ammo because I highly doubt they can survive 1 day without it. #9 when you split ammo you lose some of it somehow could be a glitch but it has happened since day 1 and it's annoying. this is one of those games that you should look at watch some video's of it but keep walking. i would have hated to play this game right out of early access and now it's been a while I can see the problems with the game when it was released are still going strong. #10 in a group of 8 people we decided to go through a dense forrest to get to 4 other players who were on the other side Well between us all we had a small Army of weapons none of us made it out because the Velociraptors killed everyone they move faster than you can aim at them they kill you even faster they jump on your face start sucking out your eyeballs and move onto the next hunter when your dead. they are easy to kill but you have to be able to hit them. the game settings keep changing during gameplay if you set your aim at a higher rate and your look at a higher look the first time you encounter anything the game changes your settings so you can't keep up with the movement of the Dinosaurs and that is another reason I hate this game. needing to go back into settings but wait you can't you can only do that before you start the game what a joke. no game settings while in game? 2 Thumbs down on this game. I think ill wait for about a year before playing this title again.