The only reason I do not recommend this game is if you are more into the management aspect of these games. The creative and building part is phenomenal if that is what you are looking for then you should get the game. The management aspect needs a SEVERE rebalancing and almost complete re-working to make it even an aspect of the game that you need to pay attention to. It's way too easy to make money and it's way too easy to please guests. That being said, if you just want to construct cool looking rollercoasters and theme parks then GET THIS GAME.  More on the management: the challenge mode is only initially challenging. As soon as you get a couple rides the game might as well be sandbox mode because of how little you have to 'manage' the park. Hundreds of people will stop by to visit your crappy park as soon as you plop down your first couple attractions. There is very little customization into what you actually do with the burgers and drink shops. You can make them lool different, but basically your park will end up with 200 Chief Beefs and 300 Milkshake shops of varying architecture. Research seems pointless since money isn't an issue, you basically just wait. If money was actually hard to come by then research might actually have a purpose because you'd have to choose whether (and what) you want to research. As is you just research whatever all the time because it's almost impossible to go broke.   Aside from the management issues the UI leaves a lot to be desired and the game has the strangest system of putting down pathways and queues. Why can't they use click and drag? I understand it's probably a remnant from the coaster construction system just ported to make walkways instead, but it's so weird having to choose your length, with, angle, etc with a series of sliders and menus rather than, you know, just placing it down. I understand it gives more customizability (which is king in this game, very commendable) but I don't see why it has to be a system of sliders and menus rather than a couple keystrokes.