Renegade ops belongs in the twin-stick shooter genre and a controller is recommended. It takes a while to get a grip on the shooting because movement is physics based. This brings an element of randomness to the driving which can lead to unintentional crashing and rolling over. Same rules apply to enemies as well and the game is mostly just a beautiful chaos. Weapons are powerful enough and sound like they mean business. Enemy variation could be higher since the same ones repeat over and over again but personally i got so much out of the destruction that i wasn't bored.  Player takes control of a single vehicle from a selection of 5 (+2 with DLC). Each of these has a special ability and look different but mostly operate on same way. You can pick up better weapons and health from fallen enemies and since these are random you can either be really lucky or stuck with your crappy level 1 machine gun for a long time. Any experience you gather is automaticly saved which is great since it makes failing a bit easier to swallow. Upgrade system lets you choose a bit of what to focus on but doesn't make a huge difference. You can only use 4 skills at a time and for example i liked Gordon Freeman (yes, the) because of his antlions. 4th upgrade slot opens at level 30 and at that time i allready had all of the skills a liked. So from 30 to max level of 45 i used the same skills.  Graphics are colorful and great. Scenery changes often depending on the mission so there is plenty of variation. Frame rate stayed solid even though at times the action and set pieces are just insane. During my 8 hours (of which about 2 was with DLC missions) with the single player the game crashed once but otherwise worked without problems.  I have no problems with the overall lenght of Renegade Ops. What i do have problems with is the lenght of individual missions. Normally a single mission takes about 20 minutes to complete and there are no checkpoints in the game. Especially in a game that puts the player on the mercy of a physics engine this is at times really frustrating. Missions starts with (depending on the difficulty) 3-5 lives and you can get one extra from a skill. You can also find extra lives but most i managed to find in a level was one. Casual mode is also available but it disables upgrades and other good things about the gameplay.  On medium lack of checkpoints is no problem but on Insane it takes one little mistake and few bad respawns to lose 3 lives in 30 seconds. I suspect that insane difficulty is meant for co-op which i didn't have the possibility to try out. It's for 4 players and if it works as well as single player it should be a blast with friends! It should be much faster to complete the game in co-op so take that into consideration.  I got a suprising amount of enjoyment out of a game that i though i'd get bored in half an hour. Renegade ops is stupid fun and i liked it a lot!