Kmann.nsf i'm still waiting on david hunt to send me some stuff, which would really help move the document along. I'll ask again if i can get it from him. There are still internal questions in it, which i have annotated. I'm happy for you to look at it fairly shortly, especially if you can give definitive commercial direction. Do you feel that the commercial team is finished with the exhibits? i haven't worked on them, but i suspect the exhibits need work. I know the bogey calc doc is a bit rough. [rorschach, reagan] exhibits are rough. I need to make a list of exhibits called out in the current doc version, pull them all together, and clean them up. Do you still owe me the emergency transmission cut stuff? [rorschach, reagan] yes. I am not exactly sure of the context....but try this on for size: clarksdale is subject to an entergy transmission constraint that from time to time results in a transmission cut and mandates clarksdale dispatching their generation assets to serve clarksdale native load. Dispatching clarksdale assets under these circumstances is known as the first contingency must run condition. During first contingency must run conditions, epmi will document the production costs, megawatts generated, duration of the event, and lost opportunity cost of buying from the market. Clarksdale is due reimbursement from entergy for extra costs incurred during such events. Early next week is better than later, and thursday and friday are huge problem days for me. When are you thinking of meeting with beck? anyway to combine the two at once, given the short timeframe? [rorschach, reagan] i think we could get everyone together at the same time as soon as monday. I want them to have the time to study the document so we can get it all done at once. Has dave signed the extension, by the way? [rorschach, reagan] done, fedex'ing to mdea. Will have faxed copy today. Kay from: reagan rorschach/enron@enronxgate on 05/31/2001 09:59 am to: kay mann/corp/enron@enron cc: subject: mdea agreement scheduling kay, we are starting to run into some scheduling constraints for next week, at least with bob priest. I'd like to get together with bob and marvin early next week to discuss the agreement--moving toward finalizing before june 12. Bob is only available monday. Bob and marvin think it is a good ideal to then meet with rw beck. I'd like to email marvin and bob the next version sometime today? reagan c. Rorschach enron north america 1400 smith street houston, texas 77002 713.345.3363