Sbeck.nsf hey there -- hope the weekend was good. I think i will still plan to come -- as i can handle some of my personal things re: moving home -- house etc. On thursday friday and meet up with others on wed. So ---- go ahead and pencil me in for mon and tuesday the 13th and 14th. I will assume that you and patti will mostly fill my calendar on those two days, so will have janine put other meetings the rest of that week. Will check on the agenda next week, before i leave london. Thanks beth enron capital & trade resources corp. From: sally beck 27/10/2000 21:34 to: beth apollo/lon/ect@ect cc: subject: re: houston trip the week of november 13 is the week of the enron management conference in san antonio. It begins on wednesday evening, so most people will be travelling on wednesday afternoon. I will be in the office on monday and tuesday that week, so those days work well for me for your visit. I just wanted you to know about the conference in case that has an impact on other meetings that you might want to have in houston that week. Let me know. I will look forward to seeing you and introducing you to others on the team. We are looking forward to seeing mo next week here in houston. Have a great weekend. --sally beth apollo 10/24/2000 09:27 am to: sally beck/hou/ect@ect cc: subject: houston trip hi there --- had lunch with mo today -- so as you can imagine she was very interested in my new role, working with you. Fernley has decided that it is too hard to write down all of the organizational changes and how it affects all of the people who reported in to phillip and i, so he has just verbally announced the changes. But, at any rate, the word is getting out. I hadn't seen mo in months, so it was good to catch up. I think she is headed to houston this week (so is frank) so i am sure you will be hearing from her. I have tentatively blocked out the week beginning monday, nov. 13th to come over to houston, and would like to spend some of that time with you and your team, meeting people, and maybe just following you around for the day, as you suggested. Does that week work for you? i think the management conference is later in the month, so people will generally be around. Please let me know, and i will make sure it happens. I will also need to spend some time with melissa becker and her team working on post ase reporting solutions, but will plan to spend a significant amount of time with the north america group. What do you think? i am ready to get moving on some new things!!!! beth