Jdasovic.nsf agreed. My initial thoughts -- 1. More government isn't the answer. If this proves anything, it is that government is the wrong party to manage consumer's energy price risk. 2. This is a 10 year hangover. The total bill = $### billion. 3. Direct access is a better solution for california. Let businesses manage their own needs, rather than a small public agency never designed to take on this task. 4. Too much, too late. Cdwr should have been buying to manage the cost for 2001, not worrying about 2007. Any contract that starts after sept 2002 is simply not a part of any real solution. By the way, i think that if pressed, enron has to be very clear - we are not advocating abrogation of contracts. Jim p.s. Jennifer will be ready to present something at the call. From: paul kaufman/enron@enronxgate on 06/18/2001 07:37 pm to: james d steffes/na/enron@enron cc: subject: re: cdwr contract analysis given jeff's work on the comprehensive solution, we will need to develop a relatively quick public posture on the contracts to convey to our lobbyist folks. Bev has already asked for some input. I told her we would have an initial view on tuesday for our california call. -----original message----- from: steffes, james sent: monday, june 18, 2001 9:39 am to: kean, steven; shapiro, richard; kaufman, paul; dasovich, jeff; mara, susan; comnes, alan; alvarez, ray; robertson, linda; palmer, mark; denne, karen; sharma, ban; fraser, jennifer; tribolet, michael; thome, jennifer; linnell, elizabeth; guerrero, janel subject: cdwr contract analysis jennifer thome will be coordinating the review of cdwr's contracts beginning this morning. If anyone has any issues that need to be considered in the review, please make sure that jennifer understands the issues. Jennifer fraser has volunteered someone from her team to help. We will be working with ena legal in portland (through alan comnes) to help with the review. Please call jennifer thome if there are any questions. Jennifer will provide an update on timing etc. At the end of the day. Thanks, jim