Skean.nsf ...fyi.. Christie. ---------------------- forwarded by christie patrick/hou/ect on 04/25/2001 03:31 pm --------------------------- christie patrick 04/25/2001 03:31 pm to: lauren iannarone/ny/ect@ect cc: kelly.kimberly@enron.net, christie.patrick@enron.com, bob.gates@enron.com, scott.vonderheide@enron.com, michael.terraso@enron.com, catherine.mckalip-thompson@enron.com subject: re: fact sheet on shareholder proposal and columbia hills friends---i'm in quite a rush to catch a flight, so keep that in mind if my comments aren't as articulate as we might prefer (though i did today again speak personally with lauren by phone, paula reiker [by coincidence of meeting her alone in the elevator this morning], steve kean in person and mark palmer several times in person about this since our conference call friday. I think everyone has a good idea, first hand, of my thinking on this matter. Let's be careful not to try to pit the alleged yakimas intervening in this matter, against the "real" tribe (even though we know there is divergence in their respective thinkings and radicalism). This delicate situation can be managed and i'm happy to handle it if needed. Keep in mind that tribes work like most of our dysfunctional families: you can tell me something bad about your mother and your brother can give me a better opinion about her; if i don't like your mother and try to use you to defend my position against your brother, it's likely both you and your brother will team up against me. "sacred' grounds, even "alleged 'sacred grounds' " are somewhat moving targets and somewhat personal--no matter how wacky, one indian wouldn't want to be put in a back-against-the-wall position of denying another indian's claim of sacred grounds. Yet again let me say, this situation between the groups is manageable and i believe we can, when necessary, work with the "real" tribe in the same, very amicable way we've been doing since 1997, to resolve this for the wind group should we ever decide to go forward. Here's a red-lined version of my comments. Thanks--i'll be travelling through tuesday morning, but can be reached through all the usual alternative routes (phone mail is best--3-6117). Thanks!!---christie.