Jmckay1 (non-privileged).pst heeelllloooo g money, long time no e-mail!.... Things here are starting to settle down a little. I still have not quite cleaned up my affairs in calgary and probably need to do a weekend trip back up there, but i'll be sure to give you more notice than last time, as it will probably be less work and more play. I have yet to do anything too spectacular down here. Last week end i went to the houston grand prix. Paul tracey and the other canadian (name fails me....you know the french guy patrick?????) didn't do to well. Although, enron had sponsored a car for that race and it was in 3rd most of the way until it crashed on the 2nd from last lap. It was kind of fun to have someone to cheer for in the race that was in the "thick" of things. The day was nice and it beat being inside all day. A couple of week before that i watched notre dame get slaughtered by texas a&m. It was a really hot day and kyle field (where a&m plays) is the loudest outdoor stadium i have ever been in. There was 92,000 people there and 91,950 were die hard texas a&m fans. I kept pretty quite though, the only thing i had to cheer about as far as the irish was concerned was that they won the coin toss. Everything else was down hill from there........it was a complete domination by a&m. The apartment is starting to get organized. It is hard to take two 2,000 square foot homes and move them into one 950 square foot apartment. I've thrown a lot of stuff out i hope i wont need again or i hope i can replace easily if i need it. How are things with you? are you guys getting out much these days? anything new and exciting going on in your life? i hope all is well and i find myself missing you guys a lot. Have one for me! jon -----original message----- from: "glen miller/canwest/contr/ibm" <gmille@ca.ibm.com>@enron sent: monday, october 15, 2001 1:42 pm to: mckay, jonathan subject: hey buddy, what's going on? just wondering what you're up to.....things settled down a little for you? i'm going to hockey tonight for the first time this year.....i can already feel the groin pull......