Vkamins.nsf good morning, i am sorry, to hear that you will not be able to join us - would know of anybody else at enron who would possibly be interested in presenting at our conference? thank you for your assistance in this matter -----britta---- -----original message----- from: vince j kaminski [mailto:vince.j.kaminski@enron.com] sent: thursday, april 13, 2000 6:08 am to: brittab@informationforecast.com cc: vince j kaminski subject: re: infocast's valuing electric power assets and companies: a real options perspective britta, thanks for your message. I have several commitments at the time of the conference and have to decline with regret. Vince "britta bothe" <brittab@informationforecast.com> on 04/12/2000 03:52:46 pm please respond to <brittab@informationforecast.com> to: <vkamins@enron.com> cc: subject: infocast's valuing electric power assets and companies: a real options perspective dear mr. Kaminsky, as i mentioned on your voice mail, infocast is going to host an ?valuing electric power assets and companies: a real options perspective? conference to be held on july 31- august 2, 2000, in chicago, il - i would like to explore your or your organization's possible participation at this event with you. This conference has been designed to bring together industry professionals, like you, to provide the latest details on a "real options" approach to electric power asset valuation. I have attached a draft program outline for your review. If you or someone else at your company is interested in presenting on one of the topics please let me know. I truly appreciate your taking the time to review the conference schedule and hope that you will consider participating. I am running behind schedule in finalizing this program. I will call you on tomorrow to follow up with you on this invitation. In the meantime, if you have any questions or suggestions, please do not hesitate to contact me at (818) 888-4445, ext. 30. I hope you can join us for this event. Sincerely, britta bothe infocast conference manager (see attached file: ea&cv, program outline, scenario 1.doc)