Mtaylor.nsf seems to me that l/c's are the way to go then, rather than asking for cash or another asset as collateral. (another option would be to mix and match - taking cash up to $10 mil. And l/c's beyond that.) lenders frequently set up the facilities available to the borrower this way so they keep control over how much "debt" is supported by the asset base while still giving the borrower some flexibility. As you can imagine, most other extenders of credit are willing to take the bank's l/c in lieu of a lien on a hard asset. Russell diamond 01/08/2001 06:42 pm to: mark taylor/hou/ect@ect cc: subject: re: isda collateral question mark, letters of credit are available under this credit facility. Please let me know your thoughts and if you need any additional information as the originator in ees is calling for me. Thanks russell. From: mark taylor on 01/08/2001 05:39 pm to: russell diamond/hou/ect@ect cc: subject: re: isda collateral question any chance this language came from a credit facility that provides for the issuance of letters of credit? russell diamond 01/05/2001 05:20 pm to: mark taylor/hou/ect@ect cc: tana jones/hou/ect@ect, tanya rohauer/hou/ect@ect subject: isda collateral question mark, i copied a section of a counterparty's bank credit agreement relating to certain negative pledges. The counteparty is imc global whom we have some financial transactions with (actuall their sub imc-canada) at ecc, and now an ees person is looking to enter into a long term ees transaction. We sent them a draft isda for future transactions out of ecc and we are now being told by the ees person that if a credit support annex (csa) is required in this isda it will kill her deal. She has stated that they are not able to fulfil the obligations of the csa because of the covenants tied to their credit support agreement. As highlighted in red below, it seems that they cannot have any liens that secure derivative obligations, although cash is acceptable up to $10 million. Can you please clarify if collateral as it is stated in the isda is considered a lien, and if this type collateral would be a breach of their credit agreement. If this is a breach can you suggest other methods that we might use so the csa would be acceptable. Thanks russell negative pledge. Neither any borrower nor any subsidiary of any borrower will create, assume or suffer to exist any lien on any asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, except: liens existing on the date of this agreement securing debt outstanding on the date of this agreement in an aggregate principal or face amount not exceeding $135,000,000; any lien existing on any asset of any person at the time such person becomes a subsidiary of a borrower and not created in contemplation of such event; any lien on any asset securing debt incurred or assumed for the purpose of financing all or any part of the cost of acquiring or constructing such asset, provided that such lien attaches to such asset concurrently with or within 90 days after the acquisition or completion of construction thereof; any lien on any asset of any person existing at the time such person is merged or consolidated with or into a borrower or a subsidiary of a borrower and not created in contemplation of such event; any lien existing on any asset prior to the acquisition thereof by a borrower or a subsidiary of a borrower and not created in contemplation of such acquisition; any lien arising out of the refinancing, extension, renewal or refunding of any debt secured by any lien permitted by any of the foregoing clauses of this section, provided that the proceeds of such debt are used solely for the foregoing purpose and to pay financing costs and such debt is not secured by any additional assets; liens arising in the ordinary course of its business which (i) do not secure debt or derivatives obligations, (ii) do not secure any obligation in an amount exceeding $100,000,000 and (iii) do not in the aggregate materially detract from the value of its assets or materially impair the use thereof in the operation of its business; liens on cash and cash equivalents securing derivatives obligations, provided that the aggregate amount of cash and cash equivalents subject to such liens may at no time exceed $10,000,000; and liens not otherwise permitted by the foregoing clauses of this section securing debt in an aggregate principal or face amount, together with all other debt secured by liens permitted under this section 5.09(i), not to exceed an amount equal to 10% of consolidated net worth (calculated as of the last day of the fiscal quarter most recently ended on or prior to the date of the most recent incurrence of such debt).