Ddelain.nsf any ideas? these guys (john & jere) just can't get it together. Regards delainey ---------------------- forwarded by david w delainey/hou/ect on 05/19/2000 05:14 pm --------------------------- david w delainey 05/19/2000 05:12 pm to: jere c overdyke/hou/ect@ect, c john thompson/corp/enron@enron, scott josey/corp/enron@enron cc: mark frevert/na/enron@enron subject: re: potential candidates for reliable reserves jere, i understand your frustruation and i am very motived to prove out the insurance product; however, i do think john has a legitimate concern (especially given the fact that this group blew up very publically internally and externally and we need to repair the image internally and market perception externally in order to be successful in the future) surrounding multiple groups covering the same customers with different stories. You guys could not work this out - so i offered a compromise position which involved a well coordinated test marketing iniative (this was agreed to by you and john at the offsite): a) the insurance group was to identify the initial 5 to 10 target customer list that ena would pitch the product to which should give us a determination if this is a commercially viable product; b) john and scott would facilitate the contact with the customers to ensure a consistent face and story with the customers - if you guys can sit down and come up with an alternative that works for you - great; regardless, john had promised me that he would do everything necessary to facilitate and promote this capability to these customers asap; c) both groups would put a deal team together and get out there asap; d) if the test marketing of the product is successful; i agree that we need to sit down and discuss how we formally allign the interests of these groups. This appears to be a reasonable and logical approach on an interim basis. Regards delainey ---------------------- forwarded by david w delainey/hou/ect on 05/19/2000 04:30 pm --------------------------- jere c overdyke 05/18/2000 08:50 am to: david w delainey/hou/ect@ect cc: subject: re: potential candidates for reliable reserves we are heading down the road of a gate keeper approach which has proven very inefficient at enron in the past. Our group has already canceled a meeting with the cfo of vintage because of this approach. Rerarding industry relationships, george carrick, mark tawney and i have extensive relationships throughout the upstream sector, know the decision makers and can set up our own meetings, all in coordination with the upstream group. At this time i am waiting on john's group to set up our meetings. Seems very inefficient. The main objective is to determine if there is demand for the product. I will continue to coordinate through john but we need to meet to clarify roles and responsibilities of all parties - how will deals be structured, who will price, who will negotiate transaction, etc.