Jstepeno (non-privileged).pst welcome to email news delivery, a service from business wire. Here is your industrial information resources inc. News release. If you have received this in error please send a message to: emaildelivery@businesswire.com with the following command in the body of the message: unsubscribe tx-industrial-info-res if you have questions about this service, please contact your business wire account executive or service@businesswire.com bw2008 oct 18,2001 2:05 pacific 05:05 eastern ( bw)(tx-industrial-info-res) mountainview power begins construction of a 1,034mw generating unit addition in california, in an advisory by industrialinfo.com business/energy editors houston--(business wire)--oct. 18, 2001--the following is an advisory by industrialinfo.com (industrial information resources inc., houston, texas). Mountainview power company llc (san bernardino, calif.), a subsidiary of aes corporation (nyse:aes) (arlington, va.), began construction in august for a 1,034 mega-watt (mw) natural gas-fired combined cycle unit addition at the mountainview power station in san bernardino, calif. Bechtel corporation (san francisco, calif.) was awarded the engineering, procurement and construction contract and construction completion is scheduled for the summer of 2003. The new addition will consist of four foster wheeler heat recovery steam generators (hrsg's) and four natural gas-fired general electric ms7001fa combustion turbines. Each hrsg will be equipped with a selective catalytic reduction (scr) unit to reduce nitrogen oxide (nox) emissions produced in the combustion process. The aes corporation, founded in 1981, is the world's largest global power company and owns or has interest in 180 power plants totaling over 60,000mw in 28 countries and $6.7 billion in revenue for the year of 2000. In addition to having assets in excess of $35 billion, the company has over 10,000mw in advanced development in another twelve countries and employs roughly 60,000 people worldwide. Industrialinfo.com provides daily news related to the industrial market place including industry alerts and databases for the energy and industrial markets. For more information on trends and upcoming construction activities for the energy and power markets as well as other industrial sectors send inquiries to powergroup@industrialinfo.com or visit us at www.industrialinfo.com. --30--bmd/ho* contact: industrialinfo.com, houston joseph govreau, 713/783-5147 keyword: california texas virginia industry keyword: energy manufacturing oil/gas utilities source: industrialinfo.com for the best viewing of the news releases please use the following email settings: courier 10 point. -notice of copyright and general disclaimer- (c) 2000 business wire. All of the releases provided by business wire are protected by copyright and other applicable laws, treaties and conventions. Information contained in the releases is furnished by business wire`s members who are solely responsible for their content, accuracy and originality. All reproduction, other than for an individual user`s reference, is prohibited without prior written permission. - notice of copyright and general disclaimer -- (c) 1999 business wire. All of the releases provided by business wire are protected by copyright and other applicable laws, treaties and conventions. Information contained in the releases is furnished by business wire`s members who are solely responsible for their content, accuracy and originality. All reproduction, other than for an individual user`s reference, is prohibited without prior written permission.