Mary-hain.nsf request_number: ds-pl:001 firstname: pamela lastname: jacklin e-mail: pljacklin@stoel.com exhibit_wp-02-e-: jcg-01 and 02 page_numbers: request_text: please disclose and/or produce copies of any and all communications, from october 16, 2000 to the present, between any bpa representative and any representative of any other party, concerning any of the following subjects: a. The general structure of the cost recovery adjustment clauses (cracs) described in the testimony of the joint customers; b. Any differences between the form of the cracs described in the testimony of the joint customers and the cracs contained in bpa's amended proposal, or those contained in bpa's supplemental proposal; c. The detailed mechanics of implementing the cracs described in the testimony of the joint customers; d. Revenue effects of the cracs described in the testimony of the joint customers, any modifications; or e. Any aspect of the partial stipulation and settlement agreement and the parties' proposal attached thereto. For purposes of this request, "disclose and/or produce" has the meanings described below. With respect to oral communications, "disclose and/or produce" means to describe the time, date, approximate duration, and substantive content of the communication; the identity and organizational affiliation of the communicating individuals; whether the communication occurred in person or by telephone; the location of the communication if in person; the identity of any witnesses to the communications, including all individuals in the room if the communication occurred by speakerphone; and whether the communication was made in the presence of or after coordination with bpa counsel (if so, identify such counsel). For purposes of this request, you need not "disclose and/or produce" oral communications that occurred during meetings noticed in compliance with rate case rule 1010.7(d). With respect to written communications, the request includes communications in any recorded form, whether on paper, electronic (including, without limitation, e-mails), or whatever form. For such communications, "disclose and/or produce" means to provide copies of all non-identical versions of any written communications and to describe with particularity the location where such communications were found and/or stored, including the identity of the individual with possession or control of the written communications; to describe with particularity the circumstances under which they were generated or referred to; and to fully "disclose and/or produce" any oral communications made in connection with the written communications consistent with the preceding paragraph. For purposes of this request, you need not produce papers served on all parties to the rate case and made part of the official file in the rate case. Response_text: pacificorp objects to this data request on the grounds that it (1) seeks information that is not relevant and (2) seeks information that is unduly burdensome to produce. (rules of procedure governing rate hearings, section 1010.8(b).) pacificorp further objects to this data request on the grounds that it is in improper form, as it does not cite to specific testimony or indicate the specific use to which to information sought will be put. (special rules of practice, wp-02-o-01.) without waiving the foregoing objections, we respond as follows in the below attached exhibits: for oral communications, see exhibit 1. For written communications, see exhibit 2. The exhibits and attachments are available in bpa's data response room. The following information is from the web server: 1. Logon: iusr_granite 2. Remote host: 198.36.178.141 3. Remote ip address: 198.36.178.141 4. Form url: https://secure.bpa.gov/power/secure/psp/ratecase/discovery/wp_02_response.html 5. Browser client: mozilla/4.0 (compatible; msie 5.01; windows nt)