Vkamins.nsf stinson, any interest? vince ---------------------- forwarded by vince j kaminski/hou/ect on 04/11/2001= =20 04:49 pm --------------------------- "joan williams" <williamj@rice.edu> (by way of kathy spradling <spradlin on= =20 04/11/2001 04:29:45 pm to: (recipient list suppressed) cc: =20 subject: finance club: e-trading and fixed income markets workshop as faculty advisor to the finance club, prof. Barb ostdeik is encouraging all members to take advantage of a great opportunity to learn more about trading operations from two very respected individuals in the industry. Keith anderson of blackrock, inc (jgsm 1983) and dexter senft of lehman brothers & tradeweb llc (rice 1974) have visited the jones school to give this lecture and students have raved about them. Albert wang's fixed income and advanced investments classes are required to attend, and james weston recommends for his applied finance students and any first years taking investments next year to be there. When: 9:45 a.m. D 11:15 a.m. Wednesday april 18 where: room 117 herring hall presentation/discussion topics: trading tactics d phone trades vs. Electronic trading evolution of e-trading in fixed income markets the future of the trading desk buy-side vs. Sell-side issues speaker profiles: keith anderson, managing director and chief investment officer, fixed incom= e of blackrock, inc., is co-head of the fixed income operating committee, chairman of the investment strategy group and a member of blackrock=01,s management committee. Mr. Anderson is responsible for global fixed income strategy, asset allocation and the overall management of client portfolios. He coordinates a team of thirty-two portfolio managers and more than twenty-five credit and quantitative analysts. Mr. Anderson is a member of the treasury borrowing advisory committee, whic= h meets quarterly in washington, d.c. With the secretary and staff of the u.s= . Treasury to advise them on the financing and management of the federal debt= . Prior to founding blackrock in 1988, mr. Anderson was a vice president in fixed income research at the first boston corporation, working in mortgage securities and derivative products strategies. Mr. Anderson with criterion investment management company where he had primary responsibility for a $2.= 8 billion fixed income portfolio. Mr. Anderson has authored numerous articles on fixed income strategies, including two articles in the handbook of fixed income options: "scenario analysis and the use of options in total return portfolio management" and "measuring, interpreting, and applying volatility within the fixed income market". Dexter senft is a managing director with global responsibility for fixed income electronic commerce for lehman brothers. During his eight years at the firm, he has also managed or co-managed lehman=01,s fixed income resear= ch, quantitative research, counterparty credit and global economics departments= . Mr. Senft is the former chairman of tradeweb llc, a consortium-owned electronic bond trading system whose volume currently averages over $10 billion per day, and of which lehman brothers is a founding shareholder. He remains on tradeweb=01,s board, and chairs tradeweb=01,s trading protocol committee, which oversees the rules that govern the electronic flow of information within the system. Mr. Senft also serves on the bond market association=01,s committee for alternative trading systems, as well as its online bond steering committee and he chairs the subcommittee on e-commerce protocols and standards. Prior to ejv, mr. Senft spent 17 years at the first boston corporation (now part of cs first boston), where he was a managing director and head of fixe= d income research and product development. He is a widely published author of articles on mortgage securities, fixed income derivatives, and quantitative portfolio management, and his work continues to be among the readings for cfa applicants. In 1983, mr. Senft led the product team that created the first cmo for freddie mac. This is regarding the e-trading/bond market session arranged for april 18. As part of the 1st year finance elective, you may have already been informed by james weston (were you?) but i need to get the info out to more 2nd years as well. Do you usually send out your speaker announcements to all faculty, students, and staff? albert wang's fixed income and advanced investments classes are required to come and james weston will be encouraging 1st years that took the finance elective to come. These guys are pretty good - they came a few years back. Thanks. Bbo