Kmann.nsf hi john, i'm out of town, but will give this a look when i return. Kay j.nassos@pecorp.com on 01/30/2001 05:16:08 pm to: kay.mann@enron.com cc: gregg.penman@enron.com, t.hermann@pecorp.com, r.dobson@pecorp.com subject: confidentiaility agreements regarding enovate hello kay - it's been a long time since we've last spoken and i hope things are well. In november, gregg penman had sent me two confidentiality agreements related to enovate and asked that i forward any comments to you directly. I finally have reviewed them and have a couple comments. The only proposed changes that need explanation are in paragraphs 1 and 3 of each agreement. Paragraphs 1 and 3 are typical provisions in a confidentiality agreement where each side is evaluating a transaction. However, the confidential information disclosed under these particular agreements is going to be used not only for trading activities but also in connection with audit rights related to an existing and ongoing contractual relationship. The confidentiality agreements should not affect enovate's and pmw's rights under the llc agreement. Accordingly, the proposed changes are my attempt to clarify the usual text. Please call if you wish to discuss. I believe my procrastination has resulted in the business people wanting to sign these up next week, so your attention to this is appreciated. Thanks. <<conf ag enovate l.l.c. (evaluation of enovate llc) v1 enovate cmts mrk.doc>> <<conf ag peoples energy resources corp. (evaluation of enovate llc) revision 3 pec cmts.doc>> ---------------------------------------------------------------- the information transmitted is intended only for the person or entity to which it is addressed and may contain confidential and/or privileged material. Any review, retransmission, dissemination or other use of, or taking of any action in reliance upon, this information by persons or entities other than the intended recipient is prohibited. If you received this in error, please contact the sender and delete the material from any computer. - conf ag enovate l.l.c. (evaluation of enovate llc) v1 enovate cmts mrk.doc - conf ag peoples energy resources corp. (evaluation of enovate llc) revision 3 pec cmts.doc