Sbeck.nsf as we are nearing the deadline for the book-split project, i want to give you a status update. Book-split completed separate cash & term books have been setup in enpower and global databases for every country pablo pissanetzky has written code to successfully transfer over 99% of the deals into their proper regional books two dozen deals (mainly annuities) have been modified in production to transfer according to pablo's code all deals requiring manual intervention on go live date have been identified initial position report has been developed and tested for accuracy uncompleted communication to commercial of positions (wed. April 26) presentation of the position report which allows commercial to view monthly peak/off-peak volumes by region (wed. April 26) pcs by deal for each portfolio separate dprs and associated reports for the pool and bilateral portfolios modifications necessary for the settlements invoicing system transmission we are making progress on this effort although you have not seen any hard evidence. Zhiyong wei is the it director in houston who is responsible for enpower development. We are working with pablo and zhiyong on several possibilities. As we have previously discussed, there is not the current capability to value the spreads as options, but we are testing the other scenarios. Buy/resale this deal type has been disabled we are waiting for zhiyong's response as to its future functionality if any transmission pablo tested in the stage environment today after receiving minor assistance from zhiyong ability to book transmission deal without annuity leg ability to liquidate demand charge daily reflects long and short positions at the appropriate regions (as forwards not options) does not value the forward spread between the regional curves (still testing) variable cost treatment is still being tested forwards if deep in the money, we could enter intra-desk/inter-desk deals to reflect positions and p&l much time and it development resources have been spent to make use of the transmission functionality. After speaking with zhiyong, there evidently was a big push last year for the mtm of transmission. The latest version has been in the test environment for some time, but no one is currently testing it. It will take some attention to test it properly and will not be complete by the book-split deadline. As we established in our last meeting, the mtm of transmission is a separate project from the book-split. Due to the complexity and amount of data involved in the book-split project itself, it is advisable that we incorporate the transmission second. Further testing of the transmission will continue this week and by the end of the week we should have a decision on the most effective way to currently book transmission. Please call or come by if you have any questions, todd hall