Mary-hain.nsf hello, everyone - this notice confirms our next rto west regional representatives group (rrg) meeting for friday, june 1. The meeting will be held at our usual place - the portland sheraton airport hotel, columbian rooms, from 8:30 a.m. To 11:30 a.m. The working agenda for the meeting is: 1. Congestion management the congestion management work groups have performed indefatigably in developing a consensus model that we envision will be the basis for the very substantial amount of congestion management work that lies immediately ahead. The model will be presented by kristi and barney for full rrg discussion as the first agenda item. 2. Stage 2 filing plan and schedule we're still putting the plan and schedule together for your review. We appreciate the helpful comments on scheduling that many of you gave us at our may 4 rrg meeting. We've tried to accommodate your views as much as we could. Here are the assumptions that are guiding the stage 2 filing plan and schedule: a. There will be an august 31 interim filing and a december 1 completion filing. B. The august 31 filing will include information about key components of rto west, such as the congestion management model, an "illustrative" pricing model, planning/expansion principles, and lists of facilities for inclusion. C. Work will continue to be sequenced. For example, after essential congestion management work is completed, work on losses, and ancillary services will commence as soon as possible. This sequencing will require a major effort on congestion management with tight deadlines over the next five weeks. Work on all items needed for a completion filing in december will commence as determined appropriate. D. Work on underlying rto liability issues will continue in parallel throughout the near-term schedule. We'll have a fuller plan and schedule for your review on june 1. 3. Report on rto west technical conference with ferc on liability we will give you a report on the rto west technical conference that is being held today at ferc on liability. As you know, in the april 26 rto west order, the commission rejected the entire liability program. An objective of the technical conference is to explain the filing utilities' concerns about risk allocation and liability and try to find an approach that can resolve these concerns. 4. Benefit cost analysis as we previewed at our may 4 rrg meeting, we have initiated discussions with some potential contractors who could assist in developing a new rto west benefit-cost analysis. We will report to you on the status of those discussions and the next steps to move ahead on this important issue. This notice is being sent to you via our new "exploder" system, so i hope it goes only to those who have told us they want to receive it. Please do not reply to this e-mail as your reply will go to the entire rrg list of 400+ folks. We've already annoyed enough of you as it is. Thanks very much, and we look forward to seeing you on june 1. - bud