Gwhalle (non-privileged).pst we received the email below in the enrononline inbox. I am forwarding this to you at the customer's request. Sunil abraham enrononline "gerald engdahl" <gerrywps@worldnet.att.net> on 10/18/2001 10:24:20 am to: help@enrononline.com cc: (bcc: help) subject: lng consultant/ designer for project cost savings re: lng consultant and designer for project cost savings please forward to greg whalley president of enron wholesale services. I am a consultant with expertise in lng peaking facilities, lng terminals, lng satellites and lpg facilities. My work experience , 34 years with chicago bridge & iron company, includes the design responsibility and other tasks associated with many lng facility turnkey design/build contracts. The knowledge from this and my recent experience provides the basis for offering consulting services. We continue to have the objective of obtaining the required performance and providing cost savings in the following service areas: lng consulting - provide assistance in evaluating proposals. Review engineer's detailed engineering and design. Review terminal operation philosophy. Review and assist in project planning. Design work - review and provide system and subsystem designs on facilities with the goal of attaining required performance and cost savings. Provide process and mechanical equipment specifications. Modify and upgrade equipment. Work on existing terminals and facilities - review, recommend and work on additions and modifications to existing facilities including lng peaking plants, lng terminals, lng satellites and lpg facilities. Refrigerated storage systems - work on low temperature and cryogenic storage and terminal facilities for ammonia, butane, propylene, ethane and ethylene. We have improved the technology of several systems associated with refrigerated storage and terminal facilities. The improved systems could offer substantial benefits. The improved systems are listed. Lng boil off recondenser and vapor handling system - included is the vapor return to ship system, the boil off vapor system and the recondenser system for use at lng terminals. Vaporizer and heater system - a low maintenance, high reliability vaporizer/heater is being developed for lng and other fluids. Utilizes sea water , river water and other heat sources without the use of an intermediate fluid. Purger system - designed specifically for removing non-condensible gases from receivers and all types of condensers. For use with ammonia, propane, lpg and other gases. Foundation heat system - the under tank heating system provides uniform heat in an energy efficient and cost effective manner. Storage tank heat leak is reduced. Carbon dioxide removal system - the process is well suited for applications where the feed stream requires cooling as in cryogenic natural gas liquids plants and lng liquefaction systems. Rail car unloading system - a new approach is utilized to reduce the time required to unload ammonia and lpg rail cars. You can contact me for these and other services. We will send a resume if you will provide your address. You can contact me at phone/ fax 630 653 7587. Best regards, gerry engdahl pe at wheaton, illinois ps: if this message crosses the wrong desk, please forward. - att1.htm