Jshankm (non-privileged).pst unfortunately, the wine trip for 10/27 is cancelled due to lack of interest. Hopefully, we will have better turnouts for next year. Have a nice weekend, and don't forget there are two happy hours tonight - gordon biersch in palo alto, and kell's (?) in sf. -----original message----- from: tai, tony sent: tuesday, october 23, 2001 9:35 am to: evmba_social@haas. Berkeley. Edu (e-mail) subject: re: napa and sonoma trip it's 5 days before our napa-sonoma-wine trip. I know all of you are anxiously waiting for this saturday, but just forgot to actually sign up for the trip. Seriously, the sign up has been slow due to midterms or other reasons. We really need to know how many people can commit for the napa-sonoma trip, so please sign up by 3:00pm wed, 10/24. The wine trip will start off at viansa with a connoisseur tasting and followed by a gourmet lunch in a reserved area of the viansa hill top picnic grounds. The connoisseur tasting includes food pairing and reserve wine tasting. We will then move on to gloria ferrer for award-winning sparkling wines. I have heard from several classmates raving about this winery. It's a must see for those who have never been there!! finally, we will move on to st. Supery, situated in a historic landmark 1880 victorian atkinson house (now a living museum). We will find exclusive st. Supery wines that can not be found anywhere else. The trip is pre-negotiated at a group rate, one would have to pay much more to have the same type of experience. Additionally, feel free to bring your spouse and significant others to enjoy one of your rare day-off from school and work. Hope to see you all there!! tony -----original message----- from: natalia rachelson [mailto:nraykhelson@hotmail.com] sent: monday, october 08, 2001 2:49 pm to: evmba_social@haas. Berkeley. Edu (e-mail); eveningmba@haas.berkeley.edu subject: napa and sonoma trip ladies and gents, i know how stressed out everybody is at the moment: first-years are thinking about finals, second and third-years are getting ready for the mid-terms. However, there is a light at the end of the tunnel... And this light is brought to you by the evmba social committee! get your drinking caps on and get ready to spend a relaxing and fabulous saturday with your classmates at napa and sonoma. Lots of wine, food, and fun is guaranteed to be provided by the veterans of the evmba program:) remember: b-school is about networking and not about nash equilibrium or npv!!! the details are as follows: date: saturday, october 27. Fee: $37 per person (includes a gourmet picnic lunch, wine tasting, and tours of the wineries) schedule: 9:00 shuttle pickup at haas (parking lot by kleeberger field) 11:00 viansa winery (tasting and lunch) 1:30 gloria ferrer winery 3:30 st. Supery winery 5:30 back to haas rsvp is required. There are only 40 spaces available. Please leave your check in tony tai or natalia rachelson's mailbox, and send either tony or myself an email indicating your attendance. This event is open to studens and their significant others; however, since space is limited students get priority! tony and i will reply with a confirmation. Again, the space is limited. So, sign up as soon as possible.